---
aliases: /news/live-blog-r-d-response-to-covid-19-pandemic
archetype: news
author:
- Anurup Sree
basePath: /communities/pandemic/curated-news/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /communities/
- /communities/pandemic/
- /communities/pandemic/curated-news
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- Communities
- Pandemic Community
- Curated News
- 'LIVE BLOG: R&D response to COVID-19 pandemic'
categories: []
contentCategories: medigy-pandemic-curated-news
date: '2020-04-24T09:16:03.590556Z'
description: The coronavirus pandemic is disrupting universities and research institutes
  across the world. But the same institutions are also working very hard to find out
  how the disease can be stopped and its
favIconImage:
  alt: 'LIVE BLOG: R&D response to COVID-19 pandemic'
  format: ICO
  href: 5aa4821e-0bca-57bd-ab56-232b7a6410d8-favIconImage.ico
  size:
  - 48
  - 48
  valid: true
  workPackage: 2154
  wpAttachment:
    fileName: Curated_Source_FavIcon.png
    link: /api/v3/attachments/5741/content
htmlMetaData:
- Generator: Drupal 8 (https://www.drupal.org)
  HandheldFriendly: 'true'
  MobileOptimized: width
  description: 'The coronavirus pandemic is disrupting universities and research institutes
    across the world. But the same institutions are also working very hard to find
    out how the disease can be stopped and its effects mitigated.


    Follow this live blog for the latest updates on how the crisis is impacting research
    and innovation, and what governments, funders, companies, universities, associations
    and scientists are doing to stop or cope with the pandemic.'
  msapplication-config: /themes/sciencebusiness/favicons/browserconfig.xml
  theme-color: '#ffffff'
  viewport: width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0
id: 2154
identifier: Pandemic Community
lastMod: '2020-04-24T09:16:15.114133Z'
link:
  brand: ''
  href: ''
  original: null
mastHead: Pandemic Community CoP
mdName: 5aa4821e-0bca-57bd-ab56-232b7a6410d8
openGraphMetaData:
- ogdescription: 'The coronavirus pandemic is disrupting universities and research
    institutes across the world. But the same institutions are also working very hard
    to find out how the disease can be stopped and its effects mitigated.


    Follow this live blog for the latest updates on how the crisis is impacting research
    and innovation, and what governments, funders, companies, universities, associations
    and scientists are doing to stop or cope with the pandemic.'
  ogimagesecure_url: https://sciencebusiness.net/sites/default/files/styles/article/public/2020-03/bigstock-Coronavirus-In-China-Novel-Co-347904061.jpg?itok=BOyk_4J9
  ogimageurl: https://sciencebusiness.net/sites/default/files/styles/article/public/2020-03/bigstock-Coronavirus-In-China-Novel-Co-347904061.jpg?itok=BOyk_4J9
  ogsite_name: Science|Business
  ogtitle: 'LIVE BLOG: R&D response to COVID-19 pandemic'
  ogtype: Article
  ogurl: https://sciencebusiness.net/news/live-blog-rd-response-covid-19-pandemic
openProjectCustomFields: {}
openProjectWorkPackageType: Curated News
owlType: Medigy Communities
searchCategory: News
slug: -live-blog-r-d-response-to-covid-19-pandemic
source: open-project-curations
status: ''
sub: brief
tags:
- news
title: 'LIVE BLOG: R&D response to COVID-19 pandemic'
twitterMetaData:
- twittercard: summary_large_image
  twitterdescription: "The coronavirus pandemic is disrupting universities and research
    institutes across the world. But the same institutions are also working very hard
    to find out how the disease can be stopped and its effects mitigated.\n\nFollow
    this live blog for the latest updates on how the crisis is impacting research
    and innovation, and what governments, funders, companies, universities, associations
    and scientists are doing to stop or cope with the pandemic.\n\n09:49 CET, 24 April: IBM
    grants for open source solutions\n\nIBM is offering $200,000 in grants for developers
    to address three main areas where technology can help in responding to the COVID-19
    pandemic. It interested in ideas for handling crisis communication during an emergency,
    ways to improve remote learning, and apps that enable local communities to cooperate.
    Application deadline: 31 July\n\n15:32 CET, 23 April: UK to investigate association
    between ethnicity and severity of COVID-19 infection\n\nUK Research and Innovation
    and the National Institutes for Health Research have launched a call for research
    to investigate which ethnic groups are at greatest risk of suffering severe effects
    from COVID-19 infection. An audit by the intensive care research centre has shown
    that while black and minority ethnic people make up 13 per cent of the population,
    34 per cent of all patients who become critically ill are from these ethnic groups.
    Healthcare and other key workers with minority backgrounds might be particularly
    at risk in terms of mortality and morbidity.  This is part of an ongoing call
    for research proposals, with £25 million already awarded to 26 research projects.
    Application deadline: 11 May.\n\n12:20 CET, 23 April: Pan-European consortium
    to fast-track development of a COVID-19 vaccine\n\nThree European companies announced
    they are pooling their resources and expertise in the development of a vaccine
    against COVID-19. ReiThera in Rome, Leukocare in Munich, and Univercells in Brussels,
    are on course to begin a phase I trial in June and are now looking for external
    funding to take the project forward into large scale manufacturing. The three
    companies have experience expertise in vector-based vaccine development, vaccine
    formulation, and manufacturing, respectively. In parallel with the clinical development
    program, the consortium will start manufacturing and stockpiling the vaccine.
    Working at a pilot scale, approximately 6 million doses of the vaccine are expected
    to be available early in 2021. \n\n12:19 CET, 23 April: Malta gets EU go ahead
    for €5.3M COVID-19 R&D programme\n\nThe European Commission has given Malta approval
    for a €5.3 million state aid programme for COVID-19 research. The money will fund
    research into therapeutics, devices, medical equipment and data analysis tools.
    To date, Malta has had 433 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection, with 12 new
    cases reported on April 22. There have been three deaths.\n\n09:56 CET, 23 April: EIC’s
    ‘e-pitching’ session for COVID-19 ideas grows to more than 40 health procurers
    \n\nA special “e-pitching” session for small companies to try selling their COVID-19-related
    products and services on 30 April has grown to include more than 40 public procurers
    in Europe and beyond, European Commission officials said. \n\nThe four-hour session,
    organised by the Commission’s European Innovation Council, will select 20 of the
    EIC’s existing grantees to make online pitches about their medical devices, supply
    chain, biotech and drug innovations. The procurers include hospital groups, health
    services and other public organisations from 15 EU member states, plus a group
    of Columbian hospitals. Two private German companies, one in artificial intelligence
    and the other in biotech, are also involved.\n\nThe procurers, according to Bertrand
    Wert, an EIC Accelerator project officer, have concerns during the COVID-19 crisis
    about disruptions and reliability of their supply chains – and so the EIC pitch
    event provides a stage for “recommended, quality supply-chain” companies. He said
    the 20 companies will be selected, out of a pool of about 70 volunteering grantees,
    based on whether they can respond to the specific needs that the procurers identified
    in joining the session. \n\n16:07 CET, 22 April: Start-ups will need strong financial
    support from governments, says EPFL leader\n\nAndreas Mortensen, vice president
    for research at Swiss federal technology university EPFL, said the COVID-19 crisis
    has made international R&D collaboration stronger than ever. But some actors will
    need more help than others, and startups will be probably hard hit if they can’t
    promote their ideas in different countries. At the same Science|Business online
    event 22 April,  Robert-Jan Smits, president of Eindhoven University of Technology,
    also noted that there will be changes to global supply chain and global partnerships,
    which will certainly have an impact on research.\n\nRobert-Jan Smits also added
    that it won’t be the strongest actors in the research ecosystem that will survive,
    but rather the most adaptive ones. Governments should provide support for example
    by giving financial aid while asking innovation acceleration such as energy transition,
    in line with the EU Commission's Green Deal ambitions.\n\n15:10 CET, 22 April: ‘We
    want to find solutions for the world’, says EU research chief Paquet\n\nPresident
    Trump may be taking an “America First” approach to COVID-19 remedies, but European
    Commission officials are trying to stress a more globalist view of what’s needed
    to end the crisis. \n\nJean-Eric Paquet, the EU’s director general for research
    and innovation, told an online audience 20 April that the “hundreds of millions
    of euros” that the Commission has committed to COVID-19 research so far is for
    solutions “that need to be available globally. This is the value proposal: Vaccines
    for the world, therapies for the world. This is about finding medicines and the
    cures, but also finding ways to upscale them very fast and distribute them universally
    as far as possible. That’s what Europe’s solidarity proposition is about….We want
    to find solutions for the world.”\n\nHis comments echo other senior Commission
    officials in the past few weeks – but in truth, solidarity has become a vexed
    political issue inside as well as outside the EU. Inside, as EU members debate
    COVID-19 rescue packages, many southern European politicians are accusing northerners
    of being stingy and letting the COVID-stricken south suffer unaided. And EU relations
    with Washington were upended last month when the Trump Administration reportedly
    tried to get control of a German vaccine company’s output; it led in short order
    to the EU granting the company an €80 million financing package to keep its work
    open.\n\nPaquet was speaking at a promotional video conference for an EU “Hackathon”,
    from 24-26 April, a bit of online political theatre that is expected to gather
    more than 60,000 participants to brainstorm possible solutions – technical or
    otherwise - for the COVID-19 crisis. “You don’t need to be a scientist” to join
    the session, Paquet said. \n\n15:02 CET, 22 April: Israel developing speech app
    to identify pre-symptomatic COVID-19 carriers\n\nThe Israeli Ministry of Defense
    is backing a project by the Afeka Tel-Aviv College to detect pre-symptomatic COVID-19
    carriers using voice and speech processing. The study will develop a mobile app
    to identify potential carriers of the virus, to help break the chain of infection.
    Speech samples are being collected from volunteers by the startup Vocalis Health,
    which launched the ‘voice prints’ project in March.\n\n13:33 CET, 22 April: Innovation
    awards postponed due to coronavirus outbreak\n\nThe European Patent Office announced
    the 2020 European Inventor Awards, due to be held in Monaco on 17-18 June, have
    been postponed. The event will take now place in Monaco on 17 June 2021.\n\n13:06
    CET, 22 April: BioNTech becomes first in Germany to get regulatory approval for
    COVID-19 vaccine trial\n\nGerman biotech BioNTech, which is working with Pfizer
    to develop a COVID-19 vaccine, announced today the German regulator, the Paul-Ehrlich-Institut,
    has approved the Phase I/II clinical trial of its BNT162 vaccine, which will be
    the first clinical study of a COVID-19 vaccine candidate in Germany. The company
    has designed four vaccine candidates that deliver the genetic code for four different
    COVID-19 antigens. The dose escalation portion of the Phase I/II trial will include
    approximately 200 healthy subjects between the ages of 18 to 55, to determine
    the optimal dose for further studies, as well as evaluating safety and immunogenicity.
    The study will also evaluate the effects of repeated immunisation for three of
    the four vaccine candidates. Pfizer is due to start a US trial as soon as it gets
    regulatory approval. BioNTech will supply the vaccine candidates from its GMP-certified
    mRNA manufacturing facilities in Europe.\n\n11:55 CET, 22 April: Up to €3B needed
    for COVID -19 vaccine - and EU falling short, Bruegel study says\n\nA new Bruegel
    report published today highlights the need for more investment in the later stages
    of clinical development of COVID-19 vaccines and says more should be done to support
    bioprocess development and scale up of manufacturing, at the same time as vaccines
    are being tested, rather than waiting until trials show it is clear they are effective.
    \n\nThe report, co-authored by Reinhilde Veugelers, a former member of the European
    Research Council’s scientific council and adviser to R&D commissioner Maire Geoghegan-Quinn
    calls for more public funding to reduce the risk for companies running vaccine
    projects. A staged support scheme, with a certain number of grants of a certain
    size, for each of the three phases of clinical development, will ensure at least
    three vaccines emerge from the end of the pipeline, ready for regulatory approval.
    The total budget would range from €725 million to €3 billion, depending on how
    many projects drop out. \n\nCurrently, five COVID-19 vaccines are in phase I human
    trials in the US and China. A vaccine developed at Oxford University will be the
    first to enter the clinic in Europe, with the first human volunteers due to receive
    the vaccine tomorrow (23 April).\nA typical trajectory of drug development \n\n17:00
    CET, 21 April: AXA research fund launches €5M call to mitigate risk in the aftermath
    of pandemic \n\nThe venture capital arm of the French insurance company Axa, is
    putting €5 million into COVID-19 research to inform responses in the aftermath,
    as well preparing for a potential second wave, particularly in lower income countries,
    and looking into how to better prepare for the next crisis, of whatever cause.
    The call for proposals is directed at mid-career PhDs working in academic institutions.
    Grants of up to €250,000 are on offer. Application deadline: 7 May.\n\n15:54 CET,
    21 April: Spain takes measures to protect science base\n\nThe Spanish government
    announced two measures to shield research and development from COVID-19, saying
    it will extend the contracts of PhD students for the duration of the crisis and
    that it will postpone repayments on state loans to science and technology parks.
    Repayments due in 2020 will be transferred to the same date in 2021.\n\n13:15
    CET, 21 April: OECD in fight against counterfeit COVID-19 medical products\n\nRecent
    seizures of fake medical supplies being marketed as protection against Covid-19
    have underscored the need to deal with the growing international trade in counterfeit
    pharmaceuticals, according to the OECD and the EU Intellectual Property Office,
    which today publish a joint report, ‘Trade in Counterfeit Pharmaceutical Products’,
    and an accompanying brief on links with the COVID-19 crisis. “The discovery of
    fake medical supplies related to COVID-19, just as the world pulls together to
    fight this pandemic, makes this global challenge all the more acute and urgent,”
    said OECD secretary general Angel Gurría. “We hope the evidence we have gathered
    on the value, scope and trends of this illicit trade will help lead to rapid solutions
    to combat this scourge.”\n\n12:05 CET, 21 April: EU-funded tobacco project makes
    plant genome public to help fight coronavirus\n\nA €7.2 million Horizon 2020 funded
    project which is using high precision plant breeding techniques to modify tobacco
    plants so that they produce substances other than nicotine, is making the genome
    sequence of an Australian tobacco plant, Nicotiana benthamiana publicly available.
    Genetically modified tobacco plants are used to produce proteins for use in biological
    drugs, for example, N. bethamiana has been used to generate antigens for use in
    flu vaccines. The researchers at the Newcotiana project say their high quality
    genome sequence, now available to public and private researchers, will help in
    understanding and optimising the genes that control the quantity and quality of
    biopharmaceutical compounds produced in the plant. The Newcotiana project, coordinated
    by the Spanish National Research Council and led by Technological University of
    Queensland, also involves 13 other EU research institutions.\n\n17:39 CET, 20
    April: OECD looks at testing strategies for lifting lockdown\n\nThe OECD has published
    two new reports on efficient testing strategies and protection of privacy while
    tracking COVID-19 cases. The first report recommends very wide testing strategies,
    with greatly increased government testing capacity. The number of asymptomatic
    cases and high infection rates could lead to a second wave of infections if containment
    restrictions are lifted without strict quarantine measures in place for people
    who may be infectious, as well as increased tracing of contacts. \n\nThe second
    report considers how these massive testing, tracking and tracing exercises should
    nevertheless be in compliance with civil rights and digital privacy. The OECD
    recommends fully transparency and accountability. Data should not be retained
    longer than needed. \n\n17:29 CET. 20 April: EU launches COVID-19 data sharing
    site to accelerate research\n\nThe European Commission launched the European COVID-19
    Data Platform to enable data sharing and analysis, with the aim of accelerating
    coronavirus research.\n\nResearchers are handling a torrent of information related
    to coronavirus, with analyses taking place all over the internet. This database
    is intended as a central repository, with scientists invited to use the site to
    share DNA sequences, protein structures, data from pre-clinical research and clinical
    trials and epidemiological data. \n\nThe site is supported by the European Bioinformatics
    Institute of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, the Elixir infrastructure
    and an EU-funded project run by the Technical University of Denmark.\n\n16:29
    CET, 20 April: Commission approves €88 million R&D aid for Hungary\n\nThe European
    Commission has approved a HUF 31.5 billion (€88 million) Hungarian wage subsidies
    support scheme for research and development companies of all sizes. The scheme
    is approved under the State aid Temporary Framework set up to support the economy
    during the coronavirus outbreak. Companies can get financial aid to avoid laying
    off researchers and developers.\n\n16:22 CET, 20 April: Pfizer issues $5M call
    for healthcare providers\n\nPfizer has launched a call for proposals, open to
    healthcare providers around the world that are involved in the recognition, diagnosis,
    treatment, and care of patients with COVID-19. The grants will fund education
    programmes and process improvement projects in which healthcare providers evaluate
    how well their systems are responding to the crisis and make improvements to the
    care pathway for COVID-19 patients. Each organisation may receive up to $250,000
    per grant. Applicants must be healthcare providers and health systems managing
    patients with COVID-19. Clinical research is not covered in the call. Application
    deadline: 22 May.\n\n16:21 CET, 20 April: Commission approves €140M COVID-19 state
    aid scheme in Portugal \n\nThe European Commission has given the go ahead for
    a €140 million Portuguese state aid programme in the research and development,
    testing and production of products such as vaccines, ventilators and personal
    protective equipment. Invested in the form of direct grants, €50 million of the
    total investment will be directed towards COVID-19 projects and testing facilities,
    and €90 million will support the production of vaccines and medical equipment.\n\n14:30
    CET, 20 April: IMI announces grants to support sharing of COVID-19 patient data\n\nThe
    Innovative Medicines Initiative-funded European Health Data & Evidence Network,
    is calling upon organisations based in member states and Horizon 2020 associated
    countries to share anonymised COVID-19 patient data. Grants of up to €50,000 are
    available to support this. The aim of the €1 million project is to standardise
    information into a federated data network, to accelerate analysis and support
    evidence-based decision-making. Application deadline: 14 May.\n\n13:23 CET, 20
    April: UK announces £1.25B scheme to support VC-backed firms\n\nThe UK government
    announced a new £1.25 billion aid package for venture capital-backed tech and
    life sciences companies that are struggling to stay afloat in the lockdown. The
    support includes £250 million in loans, which must be matched by equal funding
    from private investors. Loans will automatically convert into equity stakes at
    a 20 per cent discount to the valuation at the next funding round, or after three
    years, if not repaid by then. A further £750 million will be directed towards
    R&D SMEs through the innovation agency Innovate UK, in the form of grants and
    loans. \n\n13:16 CET, 20 April: UKRI announces 21 winners of its COVID-19 rapid
    research call\n\nUK Research and Innovation and the National Institute for Health
    Research have announced a second round of winning COVID-19 projects. Twenty-one
    new projects will receive a total of £14.1 million in this second wave of awards,
    as part of a £24.6 million fund. The awards include £1.7 million to Oxford University
    for the first clinical trial in COVID-19 patients to be conducted in primary care.
    This will assess if the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine can reduce the need
    for people to go to hospital, or speed up their recovery. An award of £1.7 million
    has gone to Robin Shattock, Imperial College London, to fund clinical grade manufacturing,
    animal testing, and a phase I clinical trial in healthy human volunteers of a
    mRNA-based COVID-19 vaccine.   \n\n11:18 CET, 20 April: Dutch biotech company
    joins Jenner Institute vaccine consortium\n\nContract manufacturing organisation
    Halix BV is working with a consortium coordinated by the Jenner Institute at Oxford
    University, and will provide manufacturing for the large scale production of a
    COVID-19 vaccine that is being developed by the Jenner. The team there has been
    working on the vaccine since January and is poised to start the first phase of
    clinical trials this week, with 510 healthy volunteers already screened to take
    part. Rather than progressing sequentially, this early trial is taking place at
    the same time as manufacturing scale up. In addition to Halix, the manufacturing
    consortium pulled together by the Jenner includes companies in India, China, the
    US, the UK and Italy. \n\n16:47 CET, 17 April: NIH to launch public-private partnership
    to accelerate vaccine and treatment development\n\nThe US National Institutes
    of Health (NIH) and the Foundation for the NIH will work together with more than
    a dozen biopharmaceutical companies to speed up COVID-19 vaccine development and
    treatments, in a public-private partnership, Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic
    Interventions and Vaccines. This will ensure there is a collaborative framework
    to provide infrastructure, expertise and/or funding to push forward the most promising
    vaccine candidates into clinical trials.\n\n16:46 CET, 17 April: UK government
    launches national vaccine taskforce\n\nThe UK is setting up a vaccine task force
    to expedite and co-ordinate efforts to research and then manufacture a coronavirus
    vaccine. The task force will coordinate support for the discovery of potential
    coronavirus vaccines by working with the public and private sector, rapidly mobilising
    funding, supporting leading academics, identifying ways to fast-track clinical
    trials and work with companies to manufacture any resulting products. In parallel,
    there will be a review of regulations to facilitate rapid and safe vaccine trials
    and work to develop operational plans for the procurement and delivery of vaccines.
    \n\n15:41 CET, 17 April: MIT Solve sets up international call with $1.5M in prize
    funding\n\nMIT Solve, an initiative of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
    is looking for tech-based approaches to tackling the coronavirus crisis. The call
    for proposals is directed towards immediate concerns such as improving individual
    hygiene, developing low-cost rapid diagnostics, analysing data to inform decision
    making, and providing tools to support and protect health workers. Research teams,
    organisations or individuals anywhere in the world can apply. Application deadline:
    18 June.\n\n15:32 CET, 17 April: UK Biobank to open up access for COVID-19 research\n\nData
    from 500,000 UK Biobank participants is to be provided to researchers through
    Public Health England. The information will include results for any Biobank volunteers
    who have been tested for COVID-19, primary care data, any hospital treatment received,
    and any deaths. The Biobank holds blood samples, genomic data, scans and medical
    records of its volunteers, who were are 40 – 69 and of good health when they were
    recruited.\n\n15:27 CET, 17 April: Oldest science meeting in world postponed for
    only eighth time in 189 years \n\nThe British Science Festival has fallen victim
    to the coronavirus and will be postponed from September 2020 until September 2021.
    The meeting was to be held at Anglia Ruskin University in Chelmsford, but the
    current lockdown measures have made it too difficult to organise  the large scale
    event. In its 189-year history, the festival has only been postponed on a handful
    of occasions, in 1917 and 1918 during the first world war, and during the second
    world war from 1940 – 1945.\n\n14:41 CET, 17 April: Finland joins international
    vaccines efforts after committing €5M in funding\n\nFinland is joining the Coalition
    for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the International Vaccine Institute
    (IVI), after announcing on 12 March that it would donate €5 million to international
    efforts to develop a vaccine against COVID-19. Membership of the two organisations
    gives Finland the opportunity to influence work that is going on worldwide to
    produce a vaccine, with CEPI and IVI backing a number of programmes, including
    vaccine candidates now in phase I tests in human volunteers. In addition, Finland
    will be involved in discussions about ensuring equity of access to any vaccines
    that successfully complete clinical trials and are approved. Of the €5 million,
    €4 million will go to CEPI, €1 million to IVI.\n\n10:04 CET, 17 April: Eureka
    sets up call for international COVID-19 projects\n\nThe Eureka intergovernmental
    innovation network has announced a call for researchers to create international
    consortia to strengthen collaboration in COVID-19 research. Projects, to be financed
    through the national research funding agencies of Austria, Canada, Denmark, France,
    the Netherlands, Spain and Turkey, must include at least two organisations from
    two countries. Eureka wants to back research addressing specific needs, in areas
    including disinfection, diagnostics, therapeutics and digital health. Application
    deadline: 15 May.\n\n15:42 CET, 16 April: Registrations open for EUvsVirus hackathon\n\nThe
    pan-European hackathon taking place from 24 – 26 April is now open for registrations.
    The hackathon will build on previous national events, to gather ideas for addressing
    problems related to health, business continuity, remote working and education,
    social and political cohesion and digital finance, arising as a result of the
    COVID-19 pandemic. All 27 EU member states, plus Norway, Israel, Switzerland,
    Turkey, Ukraine and the UK are invited to participate. Winners of #EUvsVirus will
    get support from the European Innovation Council’s Covid platform, providing links
    to foundations, investors, health providers and hospitals, and access to funding
    opportunities from the European Commission.\n\n11:14 CET, 16 April: Cytel launches
    open-access global COVID-19 clinical trial tracker\n\nThe Global COVID-19 Clinical
    Trial Tracker has been launched by clinical trials design specialist Cytel as
    an open-access platform to provide an overview of clinical studies in progress
    around the world. The aim is to highlight any gaps, while avoiding duplication,
    with more than 500 clinical trials of potential COVID-19 therapies currently recruiting
    globally. The real time tracker has backing from the Gates Foundation.\n\n11:12
    CET, 16 April: EIT Health refocuses to respond to COVID-19\n\nThe European Institute
    of Innovation and Technology’s health research hub, EIT Health has reorganised
    its activities to focus on the coronavirus, launching a matchmaking site allowing
    healthcare experts to post an offer or make a request for assistance. The aim
    is to map what resources are needed to tackle the virus, in areas ranging from
    software design support, to home monitoring and decontamination services. One
    member of EIT Health, Ares Genetics, is launching genome sequencing testing services
    for control and monitoring of COVID-19. \n\nMeanwhile, EIT Health’s counterpart,
    EIT InnoEnergy has made resources available to help teachers and universities
    in online teaching and learning. As one example, the ProctorExam supported by
    EIT Digital, allows universities to securely run exams online.\n\n09:45 CET, 16
    April: Spanish National Research Council announces winners of COVID-19 call\n\nThe
    Carlos III Health Institute announced grants for four new projects against COVID-19,
    backing research to visually detect the virus on surfaces, a novel nanotechnology-based
    diagnostic, using supercomputers for in silico drug discovery and to develop a
    vaccine. With a total of 15 projects approved, Spain’s COVID-19 fund has allocated
    €5 million to date.\n\n13:52 CET, 15 April: Countries to pool COVID-19 research
    funding\n\nPublic funding agencies in Germany, Luxembourg, Poland, Switzerland,
    Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Austria are pooling resources to promote international
    cooperation in research to tackle COVID-19. Researchers in these countries can
    now apply for fast-track funding for cross-border projects. This applies for both
    bilateral and trilateral projects.\n\n“International collaboration is essential
    in science, as the coronavirus crisis once again clearly shows. Together with
    our European partners, we want to make it easier for researchers to engage in
    transnational research and bring new insights to light,” said Klement Tockner,
    president of the Austrian Science Fund.\n\nThe initial call for proposals from
    the Austrian Research Fund is listed in the Science|Business COVID-19 research
    funding database. The fast track call is open to proposals that deal with the
    prevention, early detection, containment, causes and effects of epidemics and
    pandemics. Application deadline: 30 September.\n\n13:18 CET, 15 April: Mass testing
    and data gathering form core of EU COVID-19 exit strategy\n\nThe EU has called
    on member states to ramp up COVID-19 diagnostic capacity in hospitals, care centres
    and special test facilities to ease the continent’s exit from stringent lockdowns.\n\nIn
    a 16-page exit strategy published on Wednesday, the European Commission warned
    member states to align testing methodologies in order to achieve comparable results.
    \n\nSpecial virus-tracing mobile apps may also be used by governments, but they
    should be voluntary for the public. \n\n“When using tracing apps, users should
    remain in control of their data,” the commission says. \n\n12:43 CET, 15 April: KTH
    researchers send out home test kits to help map spread of COVID-19 antibodies
    \n\nResearchers at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology have mailed coronavirus
    self-test kits to 1,000 random addresses across Stockholm to collect blood samples,
    so they can analyse how many residents of the city have developed antibodies to
    COVID-19, and potentially gained immunity to the disease. The project also aims
    to assess how home testing for the novel coronavirus could help the authorities
    fight the pandemic, without burdening the health system with a huge number of
    people presenting for tests. The samples are submitted anonymously, meaning participants
    will not be told their results. However, it hoped that if successful, testing
    will be scaled up, enabling named person testing to be carried out.\n\n12:35 CET,
    15 April: EIC-funded companies to pitch to health procurers\n\nThe European Innovation
    Council is organising an ePitching session at which over 20 different public and
    private health sector procurement bodies, from 14 EU member states and several
    non-EU countries, will present their most pressing needs and issues they are facing
    in dealing with COVID-19. Selected EIC-backed SMEs will then get the chance to
    pitch, making the case for how their products and services can meet these needs.
    There will be two ePitching sessions, one on medical devices, supply chain and
    logistics management, and a second on potential therapies and antimicrobial drugs.
    Following that, there will be chance to have one-on-one discussions. SMEs have
    until 17 April to apply to pitch their products.\n\n09:33 CET, 15 April: AMable
    consortium calls \n\nThe AMable consortium, funded by Horizon 2020 to promote
    uptake of 3D printing, has launched a call for ideas on how to apply the technology
    to fill gaps in the supply of COVID-19-related equipment. The call is open to
    any individual or company in the EU, or country linked to the Horizon 2020 programme.
    Total funding is €350,000. Application deadline: 1st October.\n\n14:52 CET, 14
    April: Spanish research project studies success of lockdown using mobile phone
    data\n\nA new project funded by Spain’s Higher Council for Scientific Research
    (CSIC) is using advanced computing and data science techniques to see if the lockdown
    measures taken to stop the spread of COVID-19 are being effective. The results
    will be used to hone social distancing measures as controls on movement are reduced,
    and in future outbreaks of this disease or others. \n\nA multidisciplinary team
    from computing, demography and physics is analysing a massive volume of high-resolution
    data from telephone operators and satellite navigation companies, to understand
    how mobility and social contacts have changed since the lockdown began. This is
    one of the 12 projects CSIC has launched to study the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus.\n\nThese
    data will be fed into computational models that are being developed to study the
    different scenarios for lifting control measures, both by sector and by geographical
    area\n\nThe information and models that are developed during this research will
    be made publicly available for future use, following an open data model.\n\n13:18
    CET, 14 April: Finnish research centre VTT starts developing rapid test for COVID-19
    \n\nThe VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland is developing a COVID-19 test
    based on the detection of viral antigens in nasopharyngeal samples. Capable of
    delivering results within 15 minutes, VTT says the test will cost less than current
    tests. It is being developed in collaboration with the MeVac Vaccine Research
    Centre, with samples from COVID-19 patients provided by the HUS Helsinki University
    Hospital. \n\n13:02 CET, 14 April: Trinity College Dublin sets up COVID-19 immunology
    research hub\n\nWith backing from AIB bank, Trinity College Dublin has announced
    a COVID-19 research collaboration between Trinity’s Translational Medicine Institute
    and the Clinical Research Facility at St James’s Hospital, Dublin. The project
    will involve scientists and immunologists working on basic and applied research,
    and infectious disease consultants, immunologists, respiratory disease physicians
    and intensive care specialists working with COVID-19 patients. AIB is putting
    €2.4 million into the hub, which aims to discover drugs and vaccines against the
    coronavirus, and will work on commercial antibody tests and investigating if recovered
    COVID-19 patients are immune to further infection with the virus.\n\n11:08 CET,
    14 April: EU Commission announces €1M robotics call \n\nThe Digital Innovation
    Hubs in Healthcare Robotics project, which is funded through Horizon 2020, has
    published a call for proposals that apply robotics to diagnostics, interventions,
    rehabilitation, and supporting patients and healthcare professionals during the
    COVID-19 crisis. The call is open to SMEs and larger companies. The overall budget
    will be €1 million, with up to €300,000 for each project. Application deadline:
    17 April.\n\n09:42 CET, 14 April: Luxembourg to invest €30M in development and
    production of medical products\n\nThe government of Luxembourg announced a fund
    of up to €30 million for research, development and manufacture of products to
    help combat COVID-19. In R&D, the government is looking to back projects on medical
    devices, protective equipment, disinfectants, and the development of improved
    manufacturing processes for these products. Projects will get up to 80 per cent
    of costs, or up to 100 per cent for fundamental research. For investments in manufacturing
    facilities for these products, a subsidy covering 80 per cent of costs is available.
    Companies may also be eligible for guarantees to cover losses linked to investments
    in COVID-19-related manufacturing capacity.\n\n15:39 CET, 09 April: Spanish National
    Research Council marshals resources to boost work on COVID-19\n\nThe Spanish National
    Research Council has been taking steps to improve and enhance research on COVID-19
    through various activities. These include setting up a COVID-19 coordination team
    to ensure all research and technical capacity is dedicated to tackling the novel
    coronavirus. For example, the council has made polymerase chain reaction facilities
    for running diagnostic tests, and 3D printers and reagents, available to central
    and regional authorities. The research council has also launched a Global Health
    platform involving 150 research groups, to study transmission mechanics, develop
    diagnostics and work on an antigen-based vaccine.\n\n14:25 CET, 09 April: Ireland
    launches call for interdisciplinary research on the impacts of the pandemic\n\nScience
    Foundation Ireland, Enterprise Ireland and IDA Ireland have issued a call for
    projects to address immediate challenges posed by the coronavirus in Ireland.
    The rapid response funding is open to a broad variety of research fields, such
    as monitoring, frontline healthcare, re-purposing of technologies and drugs, diagnostics
    and mitigation. To be eligible, applicants must be from a research institution
    or from a client company of one of the following government agencies: Enterprise
    Ireland, IDA Ireland, Údaras Na Gaeltachta or a Local Enterprise Office.\n\n13:55
    CET, 09 April: Canada announces funding for home diagnostic kit\n\nThe Public
    Health Agency of Canada and the National Research Council are calling on small
    businesses to develop an easy to use COVID-19 diagnostic for home use. The test
    should be rapid, single-use and rely on a sample other than a nasopharyngeal swab.
    It must be capable of detecting the virus within three days of the first symptoms.
    A budget of up to CA$2.3 million will be awarded. Application deadline: 20 April.\n\n13:32
    CET, 09 April: Indian company offers $1M funding to address socio-economic impacts
    of COVID-19\n\nOmidyar Network India has set up a rapid response fund for tech
    projects aimed at COVID-19 monitoring and diagnostics, as well as enhancing resilience
    of workers and small businesses during the pandemic. The philanthropic Indian
    company works with entrepreneurs from the private, non-profit and public sectors
    to help lower and middle income populations impacted by the coronavirus crisis.
    Application deadline: 15 April.\n\n13:30 CET, 09 April: Grant funding to develop
    mask material in Canada\n\nThe National Research Council of Canada (NRC) is looking
    for alternative filtration material for personal protective equipment including
    N95 respirators and surgical masks for healthcare workers. With the pandemic affecting
    global supply chains, there is need for material which is sourced and manufactured
    exclusively in Canada. The funding process will be divided in two phases. For
    phase 1, the NRC will make available two grants of CA$1 million for up to seven
    days, and, depending on results of an evaluation, a grant of CA$5 million will
    be awarded to the winner. Application deadline: 13 April.\n\n11:49 CET, 09 April: EIT
    Health opens rapid response call for partners\n\nEIT Health has launched a called
    inviting EIT partners to send proposals for COVID-19 projects with rapid implementation.
    Projects should have an immediate impact that can be scaled internationally and
    involve cooperation between universities and companies. EIT Health is funding
    each project with up to €600,000. Vaccine and drug development is not supported
    under this call.\n\n11:16 CET, 09 April: Mining company launches US$1M call for
    fast fixes against COVID-19\n\nThe Canadian arm of Brazilian multinational mining
    company Vale issued a call for fast turnaround projects to improve risk monitoring,
    prevention and patient monitoring. It is seeking ideas from companies, startups,
    institutions, governments, universities and professionals, for low-cost products
    and services that can be in use within 15 days of the approval date. The focus
    should be on identifying risk areas, educating the population, preventing new
    contamination, and ensuring the safety of people working in essential services.
    Application deadline: 9 April.\n\n11:01 CET, 09 April: Roche to fund COVID-19
    projects in Canada\n\nRoche Canada has launched the COVID-19 Innovation Challenge,
    looking for interdisciplinary projects to address problems facing the country
    during the pandemic. It will fund research relevant to the healthcare system and
    the biological, social, and psychological impacts of the disease. Individual applications
    will be awarded up to C$50,000 (€32,810) and team applications up C$100,000 (€65,000). 
    Eligible candidates should be based in Canada, application deadline: April 10.
    \n\n18:13 CET, 08 April: International collaboration to fund COVID-19 related
    projects in Africa\n\nThe Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, in
    partnership with Co-Creation Hub and the German Corporation for International
    Cooperation, opened a call for proposals aimed at staunching the flow of misinformation,
    boosting the local production of medical supplies and improving the food value
    chain, as part of the response to the encroaching COVID-19 pandemic. Eight African
    companies have been already awarded a $5,000 grant. Projects should be based on
    African languages and targeted at semi-urban and rural populations across Africa.
    Click here to apply for funding. \n\n18:09 CET, 08 April: Pakistani foundation
    opens call for public-private projects\n\nThe Pakistan Science Foundation has
    opened a Rs20 million (€109,830) call for proposals for a public-private collaboration
    in the fields of technology and material development, infection prevention and
    control, and epidemiology, to fight COVID-19. Application deadline: April 12.
    \n\n15:18 CET, 08 April: Funding for digital projects in sub-Saharan Africa\n\nThe
    Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab has launched a $250,000 call for projects
    related to digitisation in a time of crisis, to boost public service delivery,
    governance, and financial inclusion, with a focus in sub-Saharan Africa. Proposals
    could be submitted in partnership with a government, private sector or non-governmental
    organisation. Application deadline: April 30.\n\n13:23 CET, 08 April: Commission
    names new head of Joint Research Centre\n\nThe European Commission said it will
    “transfer” Stephen Quest, head of its tax and customs directorate-general, to
    run its Joint Research Centre, the Commission’s in-house scientific labs. He succeeds
    as Director-General Charlina Vitcheva, who has been acting as JRC boss since the
    departure last year of Vladimir Sucha who returned to his native Slovakia to get
    into politics there. Before running the tax unit, Quest  was head of the Commission’s
    internal IT department. Since new Commissioners took office last December, the
    Commission bureaucracy has built up a big backlog of unfilled and temporary positions.
    \n\n12:30 CET, 08 April: ‘We don’t need messiahs, not even at Easter’: president
    of the Sorbonne University reacts to Ferrari leaving\n\nPresident of the Sorbonne
    University, Jean Chambaz, says Mauro Ferrari over-interpreted his role as president
    of the European Research Council. \n\n“Mauro did not well understand the meaning
    of the ERC,” said Chambaz, reacting to the Italian-American scientist’s abrupt
    departure from Brussels. “He wanted to transform it into the ‘NIH for coronavirus’.
    But he was not the chief scientist of Europe. He was not here to solve all of
    Europe’s problems. His job was to chair the scientific council and oversee its
    collective decision.”\n\n“We don’t need messiahs, not even at Easter,” Chambaz
    said. \n\n12:17 CET, 08 April: ‘Epic-scale flouncing’: UK science policy expert
    reacts to Ferrari exit\n\nProfessor of research policy at Sheffield University,
    James Wilsdon, calls Mauro Ferrari’s bombshell exit from the European Research
    Council on Tuesday an act of “epic-scale flouncing”. \n\n“Reading between the
    lines…He seems to misunderstand the structures of EU research funding, and ERC’s
    role,” Wilsdon wrote on Twitter. \n\nFerrari yesterday left his presidency post,
    after only three months in the job, citing disillusionment with the EU’s response
    to COVID-19. \n\nWilsdon added: “I’m sure there’s scope for more EU coordination
    on [Covid-19] R&D (same applies at national level in most countries!) but hard
    to look at responses to date [and] not see Ferrari’s criticisms as misplaced,
    attempted distraction, or sour grapes at a failed power-grab.”\n\n12:15 CET, 08
    April: ‘Regretful but unavoidable’: University group say ERC needs to be protected
    following Ferrari exit\n\nMauro Ferrari’s departure from the European Research
    Council is “regretful”, Jean Chambaz, chair of the League of European Universities,
    writes. “But the most important issue is to preserve the ERC as the flagship of
    European research policy.” \n\nFerrari stepped down as president Tuesday following
    a row over research funding for COVID-19. He had argued that the ERC should be
    re-directing its resources to fight the pandemic. \n\n“Mauro Ferrari tells his
    own story to justify his resignation. In doing so, he has demonstrated how much
    he underestimates the significance of independent bottom up research and of the
    intrinsic commitment of researchers to contribute to society by developing new
    fundamental insights,” Chambaz, who is also president of Sorbonne University,
    adds. \n\n09:15 CET, 08 April: European Commission reacts to Ferrari's resignation\n\nThe
    Commission issued a statement confirming Ferrari’s immediate resignation and noting
    that his contract as ERC president only gave him the legal powers of a “special
    advisor” to the Commission. Legally, it said, the Scientific Council “defines
    the scientific funding strategy and methodologies of the ERC.” It went on to thank
    him “for the strong personal investment” he made in the months leading up to his
    appointment 1 January.\n\n09:06 CET, 08 April: Sudden resignation of ERC president
    stirs heated dispute over motives\n\nMauro Ferrari resigned unexpectedly as president
    of the European Research Council, triggering a noisy public spat over why and
    how he left.\n\nFerrari, an Italian-American expert in nano-medicine, fired off
    an angry resignation memo – provided first to the Financial Times – castigating
    the European Commission for “a largely uncoordinated cluster of initiatives.”
    He said he pushed to have the ERC, which focuses on frontier research, launch
    a special funding round for COVID-19 research. As a result, he said, “I have lost
    faith in the system itself” and submitted his resignation on 7 April.\n\n16:26
    CET, 07 April: IMI project in emerging viral diseases wins new funding for COVID-19
    research\n\nA prescient research project funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative
    has won further funding under the EU’s emergency COVID-19 funding programme. The
    Zoonotic Anticipation and Preparedness Initiative (ZAPI) was launched in 2015
    to set up tools and platforms to be ready to vaccinate domestic animals against
    viral infections transmitted by wild animals, thus lowering the risk of transmission
    to humans.\n\nThe team of researchers says it may have treatments ready for safety
    trials by the end of the year. \n\n16:25 CET, 07 April: Spanish Institute backs
    six new COVID-19 projects\n\nThe Carlos III Health Institute awarded funding to
    six new projects that will evaluate antiviral treatments, diagnostic tests and
    the potential for repurposing of drugs approved for other diseases. To date, the
    fund, launched by the Spanish government, has invested €2.6 million of the €24
    million of the total funding available.\n\n15:14 CET, 07 April: UCL makes design
    for breathing aid freely available\n\nThe design of a continuous positive airway
    pressure device that can help COVID-19 patients with breathing difficulties when
    an oxygen mask alone is insufficient has been made available by University College
    London. This type of device is more usually provided to control sleep apnea, a
    condition where people have pauses in breathing while asleep. Engineers at UCL
    and the Mercedes Formula One team designed the device in a rapid turnaround project,
    with the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Agency giving its approval last
    week. All details of the design, materials used and how to fabricate the device
    are available for download here: covid19research.uclb.com/product/ucl-cpap. A
    key aim of the project was to design a device that is simple to manufacture. \n\n14:47
    CET. 07 April: Innovate UK launches £20M call to boost resilience in the face
    of COVID-19 crisis\n\nThe UK innovation agency has launched a £20 million call
    for ideas that will increase resilience and deal with problems arising as a result
    of the current crisis, in areas such as  delivery services, community support,
    food manufacturing, retail, haulage, and supporting people stuck at home. The
    lead applicant must be a UK registered business. It must be possible to carry
    out the research within the working restrictions imposed by COVID-19. Application
    deadline: 17 April.\n\n10:05 CET, 07 April: ERC-funded mobile app will collect
    voice and breathing data to develop algorithm for aural COVID-19 diagnostic\n\nA
    COVID-19 Sounds App has been developed by Cecilia Mascolo, professor of mobile
    systems at Cambridge University, to collect and analyse the speech patterns, breathing
    and coughs of users, providing inputs for development of a COVID-19 diagnostic.
    \"Having spoken to doctors, one of the most common things they have noticed about
    patients with the virus is the way they catch their breath when they’re speaking,
    as well as a dry cough, and the intervals of their breathing patterns,\" said
    Mascolo. \"There are very few large datasets of respiratory sounds, so to make
    better algorithms that could be used for early detection, we need as many samples
    from as many participants as we can get.” The research is partly funded by the
    European Research Council through Project EAR, an audio-based health diagnostics
    project, with Mascolo receiving a €2.5 million European Research Council Advanced
    Grant in 2019.\n\n16:38 CET, 06 April: Lebanese Research Council opens flash call
    on COVID-19 management\n\nThe National Council for Scientific Research in Lebanon
    announced it is allocating LBP300 million (€183,000) for COVID-19 research in
    diagnostic tools, use of big data analytics and robotic devices. Projects should
    take a maximum of six months to complete, with the aim of providing practical
    and quick ways to reduce suffering and limit the effects of the epidemic on public
    health and society. Application deadline: 22 April.\n\n16:31 CET, 06 April: France
    issues €4M fast track call for diagnostics and countermeasures to help countries
    with weak healthcare systems\n\nThe French National Agency for Research on HIV/AIDS
    launched a call for COVID-19 research projects in low and middle income countries
    in Africa, South America and Asia. Applicants must have a research team based
    in France and another team based in a country with a fragile healthcare system
    which is likely to find it difficult to respond to the pandemic. ANRS says control
    measures used to date in Europe may be difficult to apply in these settings. There
    is total budget of €4 million for the fast track call, with ANRS  inviting project
    leaders to seek co-financing for their research. Application deadline: 13 April.\n\n15:08
    CET, 06 April: Public-private US consortium offers processing power for COVID-19
    research\n\nThe COVID-19 High Performance Computing Consortium of companies including
    IBM, Amazon, Microsoft and Google, academic institutions and federal agencies,
    is making members’ computers available for research in bioinformatics, epidemiology,
    and molecular modelling projects requiring large amounts of processing capacity,
    to increase understanding of COVID-19 and inform strategies to address it. Research
    projects given access to date include a virtual high throughput in silico screen
    to find drug candidates, a molecular level simulation of the coronavirus entering
    a human host cell, and sequencing the genomes of patients who have suffered the
    worst effects of the infection to see if there is a genetic signature to the predict
    which future patients are most likely to need intensive care. In addition to selecting
    which research to back, the consortium, led by the White House Office of Science
    and Technology Policy, the US Department of Energy and IBM, will identify which
    of their members has the most appropriate computing resource for each project.\n\n13:33
    CET, 06 April: Launch of European health systems and policies monitor\n\nIn an
    effort to provide clear and comparable health systems information to policymakers
    struggling to control the coronavirus, the World Health Organization and the European
    Commission have set up the COVID-19 Health Systems Response Monitor, to pull together
    and organise information on public health initiatives in Europe, and to compare
    health responses between countries. Countries are calling for clear and comparable
    health systems evidence to inform policies and help strengthen their capacity
    to respond to this unprecedented crisis, said Hans Kluge, WHO regional director
    for Europe. “This tool is a breakthrough resource for health systems decision-makers
    tackling the pandemic,” he said.\n\n12:11 CET, 06 April: VUB sets up tracker on
    privacy and data protection policies around the world\n\nEmergency policies passed
    in response to the coronavirus pandemic have the potential to create privacy and
    data protection legal issues. Vrije Universiteit of Brussel (VUB) has set up an
    initiatives and policy tracker, giving an overview of how countries around the
    world are adapting laws on privacy in times of crisis. The tracker will also help
    researchers at VUB to provide humanitarian organisations with advice on how to
    protect personal data of affected individuals and of their own staff. \n\n11:23
    CET, 06 April: Japan to make flu drug Avigan available to foreign governments\n\nThe
    Japanese government announced it is making the emergency influenza treatment Avigan
    (favipiravir) available to 30 countries which have requested supplies to treat
    COVID-19. This follows reports from China that the antiviral drug had reduced
    the length of time patients with the infection needed to stay in hospital. \n\nIn
    2014 – 2016 Avigan was tested in a 111 patient clinical trial in treating another
    coronavirus infection, Ebola, in epidemic in West Africa. The study, which was
    jointly funded by the EU Horizon 2020 R&D programme and the French government,
    failed to show a positive effect.\n\nAvigan was approved in 2014, for use only
    when there is an outbreak of a novel or re-emerging flu infection which cannot
    be treated with other antivirals drugs. As such, it is held in reserve and the
    Japanese government decides when it should be used. Yoshihide Suga, chief cabinet
    secretary said the Japanese government has received numerous requests through
    diplomatic channels for access to Avigan. The drug’s manufacturer Fujifilm announced
    last week that it is increasing production and that it is starting a phase III
    clinical trial in Japan. The government announcement is at 13:30 in this video.\n\n10:11
    CET, 06 April: EU to run pan-European hackathon\n\nThe European Commission announced
    the EUvsVirus Hackathon will take place on 24 – 26 April, to come up with ideas
    for expediting the response to COVID-19. The commission says this will complement
    similar events taking place at a global and member state level. There will be
    twenty challenges, including a search for ways to speed up and scale up production
    of medical supplies, that can be quickly developed and deployed across the EU
    single market.\n\n16:53 CET, 03 April: Austrian science fund announces winning
    projects\n\nThe Vienna Science and Technology Fund (WWTF) announced 24 COVID-19
    research projects selected for funding under a fast track call for projects to
    address the coronavirus crisis. WWTF is putting in up to €50,000 per project,
    and is inviting the general public to add their support and give money on its
    donation page. Contributions are tax deductible, and the city of Vienna will put
    in matching funding.\n\n15:47 CET, 03 April: Amazon in $20M initiative to help
    customers developing COVID-19 diagnostics\n\nAmazon customers that use its cloud
    computing resources for research can apply for extra support and technical assistance
    as part of the company’s diagnostic development initiative. The programme is open
    to accredited research institutions, research consortia, and private entities
    that are using Amazon services to manage research-oriented workloads for the development
    of point-of-care diagnostic and other diagnostic techniques. Application deadline:
    30 June.\n\n15:39 CET, 03 April: Euro-African partnership launches €4.75M call
    \n\nThe Horizon 2020-backed European & Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership
    (EDCTP), launched an emergency call to support research activities in sub-Saharan
    Africa that aim to manage and prevent the COVID-19 outbreak. Research proposals
    should be in line with the WHO R&D Blueprint, and have a focus on strengthening
    national and local clinical research capacity, and on coordination and collaboration
    with other research and/or humanitarian activities. Application deadline: 17 April.\n\n15:35
    CET, 03 April: European Space Agency wants to use its technology against COVID-19\n\nThe
    European Space Agency (ESA) is looking for ideas that involve use of either space
    technology or space data to help address the coronavirus crisis. It suggests possible
    topics could include use of its satellites and networks to provide connectivity
    where terrestrial communications are insufficient, for online learning for school
    children being schooled at home and to enable video consultations for patients. 
    In research, ESA’s earth monitoring data could provide background context for
    mapping the epidemiology of the coronavirus. The agency will cover up to 50 per
    cent of costs of each project, with a budget of up to €1 million per project.
    Application deadline: 20 April.\n\n11:49 CET. 03 April: US Genome Research Institute
    asks grant holders to work on coronavirus\n\nThe US National Human Genome Research
    Institute is calling on existing grant holders to apply genomic tools to identify
    signatures of COVID-19 infection, monitor the virus and infected individuals,
    and create models of host-pathogen interactions. Grants of $250,000 per year will
    be awarded. Application deadline: 16 May.\n\n11:19 CET, 03 April: Wallonia-Brussels
    researchers to receive funding for coronavirus research\n\nThe Fonds de la Recherche
    Scientifique (FNRS) launched a call for fast track funding of research that contributes
    to the COVID-19 R&D Blueprint put together by the World Health Organization. The
    Blueprint specifies research that is needed to fill gaps in understanding and
    treating COVID-19, including epidemiology and translational studies, therapeutics,
    prevention and control of infection in clinical and community settings. The main
    applicant for each project has to be working at FNRS, or in one of the six universities
    in the Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles. Each project can receive up to €60,000.
    Application deadline: 1 May.\n\n18:24 CET, 02 April: UK innovation agency offers
    funding for COVID-19 research\n\nUK Research and Innovation is inviting proposals
    for short-term projects addressing and mitigating the health, social, economic,
    cultural and environmental impacts of the COVID-19 outbreak. Proposals from academics
    and companies, should have a clear impact pathway that has the potential within
    the period of the grant to make a significant contribution to the understanding
    of, and response to, the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts; which supports the
    manufacture and/or wide scale adoption of an intervention with significant potential;
    or\n\ngathers critical data and resources for future research use. Holders of
    existing grants are also invited to suggest how their work could be refocused
    to be relevant to the pandemic. There is no closing date and applications will
    be assessed on a rolling basis.  \n\n18:22 CET, 02 April: Colombian innovation
    network company to coordinate efforts against COVID-19\n\nThe networking organisation
    Connect Bogotá Región is working with Colombian universities, entrepreneurs and
    companies to coordinate the response to the coronavirus in Colombia. With government
    backing, it has launched two platforms, 100 Open Startup and BogoTech Abierta,
    appealing for help with particular projects. Two particular challenges are finding
    ways to assist elderly people who cannot leave their homes and optimising medical
    services. Connect Bogotá Región is also collaborating with Bogotá Chamber of Commerce,
    the National associations of entrepreneurs and the Secretariat of Health and Economic
    Development of Bogotá, to support researchers in building prototypes and scaling
    processes for the manufacture of ventilators and other medical equipment.\n\n16:42
    CET, 02 April: JRC develops new control material for more accurate COVID-19 testing\n\nThe
    European Commission’s science service has developed a new control material to
    help laboratories avoid false negative results in COVID-19 tests.\n\nThe Joint
    Research Centre (JRC) is ready to dispatch 3,000 vials of the control to testing
    labs across the EU. One vial is enough to check up to 20,000 tests.\n\nThe control
    material, a synthetic version of a part of the virus that does not mutate and
    change as it passes from person to person, allows companies manufacturing coronavirus
    tests and diagnostic laboratories analysing samples to check each test: if a test
    does not detect the control material, it will not detect the real virus either.\n\nAccording
    to a new survey, the lack of positive control materials is one of the top three
    problems faced by labs testing for the novel coronavirus. In particular, that
    means there is a risk that people carrying the virus will get a negative test
    result, despite being infected and potentially able to transmit the virus to other
    people.\n\n15:30 CET, 02 April: IBM offers AI virtual assistant to answer COVID-19
    questions from citizens\n\nIBM is making its “Watson Assistant for Citizens” available
    for free for 90 days, to help government agencies, healthcare organisations and
    academic institutions respond to the torrent of questions from citizens about
    COVID-19 symptoms, testing, procedures and treatment. The system draws on guidance
    from the US Centers for Disease Control & Prevention and local information, and
    is available online or by phone. The IBM assistant is currently being used in
    the US, Czech Republic, Finland, Greece, Italy, Poland, Spain and the UK.\n\n15:20
    CET, 02 April: São Paulo agencies grant €3.4M for innovative SMEs with COVID-19
    solutions\n\nThe São Paulo State Research Foundation (FAPESP: Fundação de Amparo
    à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo) and the Brazilian Innovation Agency are calling
    for SMEs to apply for support for the development of products, services and processes
    that can help in the COVID-19 crisis. The call is part of the third phase of FAPESP’s
    programme, Innovative Research for Small Companies. Application deadline: 6 April.\n\n15:19
    CET, 02 April: US health alliance calls for projects on equity in the face of
    COVID-19\n\nThe Alliance for a Healthier World (AHW) is searching for proposals
    that increase understanding and help mitigate the health equity and social justice
    dimensions of the pandemic. It is already abundantly clear the coronavirus crisis
    has amplified the health gap between marginalised groups, such as low-income families,
    minorities, immigrants, the disabled, the recently unemployed, and more affluent
    members of society. The aim is to study the extent of the gap and how marginalised
    people can be helped to face the economic and social impacts of the crisis. The
    AHW is offering five grants of up to $25,000 each. Application deadline: 5 April.\n\n12:13
    CET, 02 April: Rio de Janeiro agency sets up emergency €4.3M fund for COVID-19
    research\n\nThe Rio de Janeiro state research funding agency (FAPERJ: Fundação
    de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado do Rio de Janeiro) has announced an emergency fund
    for research by universities and startup companies to combat COVID-19. The aim
    is to build upon the networks and research collaborations developed in response
    to the Zika virus, which resulted in more than 1,600 babies being born in Brazil
    with microencephaly, or abnormally small heads. The fund is split into three calls.
    The first, for proposals from researchers  specialising in emerging and reemerging
    viruses, has a budget of R$6.2 million (€1 million). The second R$9 million (€1.5
    million) call is for work on diagnostics, epidemiology, clinical studies and the
    use of artificial intelligence technologies. The third R$ 9.8 million (€1.7 million)
    call is in epidemic control and infection, molecular diagnostics and clinical
    studies. Application deadline: 14 April.\n\n16:32 CET, 01 April: Carlsberg Foundation
    donates €8M to coronavirus research\n\nThe Carlsberg Foundation, the charitable
    arm of the brewing company, is backing three coronavirus research projects. The
    first, a collaboration between the University of Copenhagen, Aarhus University
    and the Serum Institute, is receiving DKK25 million (€3.3 million) to develop
    a vaccine against Covid-19 in a short time, based on a promising but previously
    untested vaccine concept. The consortium will also start work on a diagnostic
    test and new peptide therapies. In the second project, which was awarded DKK25
    million, researchers from the University of Copenhagen, Aarhus University and
    the Danish Technical University will carry out behavioural research to investigate
    how society acts during crises, as well as how democracies deal with an epidemic
    such as the one we are currently facing. The third project at Roskilde University,
    will develop better mathematical models to explain how and why outbreaks of new
    viruses sometimes develop into global pandemics. The models will also be used
    to predict how pandemics start, disappear, or eventually merge into the larger
    pool of recurring seasonal viruses. The project was awarded DKK10 million.\n\n16:00
    CET, 01 April: Swiss medtech startup receives €140,000 for breathing device\n\nSwiss
    startup, Stimit has been awarded €140,000 to advance development of a non-invasive
    device designed to activate breathing muscles in the diaphragm of patients in
    intensive care who are receiving mechanical ventilation. The aim is to reduce
    the amount of time patients - such as those with serious COVID-19 infections -
    spend on ventilators, minimising the damage mechanical ventilation can cause to
    the lungs. The company has developed a prototype and is now preparing to test
    the device in patients. The award comes from Venture Kick, a consultancy and business
    mentoring service that promotes the spinoff of companies from Swiss universities\n\n15:33
    CET, 01 April: University of California IT researchers get call to focus on COVID-19
    \n\nThe Center for Information Technology Research in the Interest of Society,
    which provides seed funding for the commercialization of IT research across the
    University of California’s campuses, is awarding $50,000 each for IT projects
    that aim to address the COVID-19 threat. Application deadline: 10 September.\n\n15:21
    CET, 01 April: Netherlands invests €1.5M in real time COVID-19 data collection\n\nThe
    Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research is launching a €1.5 million call
    for real-time data collection reflecting the situation on the ground, to improve
    the relevance of coronavirus research. A further €10 million will available for
    COVID-19 research projects to be specified in collaboration with the Netherlands
    Organisation for Health Research and Development. A detailed announcement on this
    new funding opportunity will be published at the a later date. \n\n14:43 CET,
    01 April: Switzerland sets up COVID-19 scientific task force\n\nA national COVID-19
    task force has been created by Switzerland’s Secretariat for Education, Research
    and Innovation and the Office of Public Health, to coordinate the country’s scientific
    response to the coronavirus crisis. The task force will provide policy advice
    and identify research and innovation funding needed to combat COVID-19.\n\n12:58
    CET, 01 April: Scotland launches rapid COVID-19 research programme to tap expertise
    in its universities \n\nScotland’s chief scientist is calling on Scottish universities
    to apply for funding for a portfolio of Covid-19 research drawn from the best
    ideas from research investigators in their institutions that will inform clinical
    practice and policy in dealing with COVID-19. Studies can start immediately on
    award of funding and must be completed within 3 – 6 months. Grants of up to £1.25
    million are available. Application deadline: April 8. \n\n12:57 CET, 01 April: Pakistan
    launches quick response research programme  \n\nPakistan’s Higher Education Commission
    has launched a programme supporting applied research in areas including disease
    surveillance and epidemiology, and in the rapid development and commercialization
    of products and services that will help the country control COVID-19. On the product
    side, the commission is interested in promoting domestic manufacturing of low
    cost equipment and materials, including diagnostics, ventilators and personal
    protective equipment. Universities, technologists and researchers are invited
    to submit proposals. Projects will last for six months or one year, with maximum
    funding of €82,500. Application deadline: April 3.\n\n10:02 CET, 01 April: Argentina
    puts US$5M into coronavirus research\n\nArgentina’s National Agency for Scientific
    and Technological Promotion has announced a USD$5 million fund for COVID-19 research.
    Up to $100,000 is available for each project. Application deadline: 10 April.\n\n15:45
    CET, 31 March: Botnar research centre launches fast track call for COVID-19 research\n\nThe
    Botnar Research Centre for Child Health is calling on its four partner institutions,
    the University of Basel, ETH Zurich, University Children’s Hospital Basel and
    the Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute, to submit proposals for short-term
    projects to develop diagnostics, increase understanding of the human immune response
    to COVID-19 and improve treatment and clinical management of patients infected
    with the virus. Awards of up to CHF2.5 million (€2.3 million) are available. Application
    deadline: 8 April.\n\n15:34 CET, 31 March: Austrian Science Fund sets up fast
    track for interdisciplinary coronavirus research\n\nThe Austrian Science Fund
    (FWF) is calling for scientists in the country to submit project proposals for
    multidisciplinary research in COVID-19, which will be funded within its existing
    programmes, but assessed in a new fast track procedure. The fast track is open
    to proposals that deal with the prevention, early detection, containment, causes
    and effects of epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19. This includes research
    focussed on the technical, ecological, economic, political, legal, medical, cultural,
    psychological, or ethical implications. Application deadline: 30 September.\n\n15:24
    CET, 31 March: Irish SME wins €1M Horizon 2020 grant for COVID-19 diagnostic \n\nThe
    European Commission has selected Irish diagnostics specialist Hibergene to lead
    the 18th project to be awarded funding under its fast track programme to tackle
    the coronavirus outbreak. The €1 million project, ‘HG nCov19 test’ aims to develop
    and validate a rapid molecular diagnostic test for COVID-19. The award brings
    the total of COVID-19 funding from Horizon 2020 to €48.5 million.\n\n14:05 CET,
    31 March: UK foundation offers £65,000 grant for COVID-19 research\n\nThe British
    Medical Association Foundation for Medical Research is offering a £65,000 grant
    to fund COVID-19 research. Eligible candidates are medical practitioners or research
    scientists based in UK. Application deadline: April 3\n\n13:42 CET, 31 March:
    UK government Techforce 19 to fast track apps for elderly and self-isolating 
    \n\nThe UK government has launched Techforce 19, an assisted living programme
    offering up to £25,000 grants to technology companies to speed the introduction
    of products that support the elderly and those in need during the COVID-19 outbreak. Application
    deadline: April 1.\n\n13:32 CET, 31 March: La Caixa Foundation to fund clinical
    and translational projects on COVID-19\n\nSpain’s La Caixa Foundation has issued
    a call for research projects to prevent, treat, monitor and diagnose coronavirus
    infections. The money is for research carried out by public or non-profit entities,
    including universities, research centres and hospitals. Grants of up to €300,000
    per project, for a maximum of 24 months, will be awarded. Application deadline:
    15 April.\n\n13:17 CET, 31 March: Portugal launches €3M call for data science
    and AI to help with COVID-19 crisis\n\nThe Portuguese Foundation for Science and
    Technology (FCT) is looking to fund projects using data science to improve the
    response of public bodies to COVID-19 and future pandemics. The scope covers processing,
    analysing and presentation of data to provide information for citizens and healthcare
    services that will enable them to better prepare for pandemics. Another objective
    is to optimise best practices for public health and improve the general public’s
    compliance with control measures. A total of €3 million is available, with maximum
    grants per project of €240,000. Application deadline: 28 May.\n\n13:00 CET, 31
    March: Canada to provide €8.8M for diagnostics and medical countermeasures\n\nThe
    National Research Council of Canada (NRC) is setting up a €8.8 million rapid front-line
    fund to address challenges posed by the coronavirus. The “Pandemic Response Challenge
    Programe” will focus research on rapid detection and diagnosis; therapeutics and
    vaccine development; and digital health. The NRC is inviting researchers at Canadian
    and international universities, government departments, colleges, and companies,
    to give apply their expertise to plug the gaps in COVID-19 research.\n\n10:57
    CET, 31 March: Polish science agency offers €2.2M top-up funding for basic COVID
    research\n\nPoland’s National Science Centre opened an “express” call for proposals
    for fundamental research “to understand the mechanisms of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus.”
    The PLN10 million (€2.2 million) call, intended as a top-up to researchers already
    working in the field, will be mainly for research into how the virus works, how
    to protect against the disease, and the social and psychological effects of the
    pandemic. Deadline for applications is 14 April, with awards promised in early
    May. \n\n14:42 CET, 30 March: Consortium including Karolinska Institutet awarded
    €3M as part of Horizon 2020 special fund for coronavirus research\n\nDNA manufacturing
    specialist, Cobra Biologics and the Karolinska Institutet announced they were
    awarded €3 million as one of 17 COVID-19 projects funded by Horizon 2020. The
    funding will be used for preclinical research and a phase I clinical trial of
    a DNA vaccine, to be developed by the Opencorona consortium. The first human trials
    will take place in 2021.\n\n14:08 CET, 30 March: Canada approves funding of 49
    COVID-19 research projects\n\nThe Canadian Institutes of Health Research published
    details of 49 projects in which it is investing CA$25.8 million (US$18.2 million)
    of the CA$275 million in extra funding dedicated to COVID-19 research announced
    on 11 March. The projects are focused on aspects of controlling the pandemic,
    including clinical management, development of vaccines and diagnostics, the transmission
    dynamics of the virus, and social and policy countermeasures.\n\n11:52 CET, 30
    March: European Open Science Cloud offers €45K grants for COVID-19 projects\n\nThe
    European Open Science Cloud (EOSC) has launched a fast track call for projects
    that use its resources and open and trusted environment for data sharing, to respond
    to the COVID-19 emergency. This will include projects that open up scientific
    data on the virus; share live on-the-ground data on the spread of the virus; work
    on the development of software, standards and processes for monitoring COVID-19
    treatments; and access and combine data to help control COVID-19 and learn how
    to deal with similar viruses and future outbreaks. EOSC says it will evaluate
    applications weekly, promising a swift response. \n\n11:30 CET, 30 March: Facebook
    founder to give $25M to COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator\n\nMark Zuckerberg and
    his wife Priscilla Chan are donating $25 Million to the $125 million COVID-19
    Therapeutics Accelerator fund set up earlier in March by the Bill and Melinda
    Gates Foundation, the UK Medical research charity Wellcome Trust and credit card
    company Mastercard. The fund aims to accelerate development of drugs to treat
    COVID-19 by speeding up evaluation of new and repurposed drugs and biologics to
    treat the coronavirus.\n\n10:50 CET, 30 March: Global tech hackathon aims to combat
    COVID-19\n\nThe global tech community is calling for people to join an online
    hackathon to share and rapidly develop ideas for dealing with the socio-economic
    crisis caused by COVID-19 and increase resilience in its aftermath. From an initial
    event in Estonia, the ‘Hack the Crisis’ hackathon has rapidly grown into a worldwide
    movement that will culminate in the ‘Global Hack’. Countries including Turkey,
    France, Poland, India, Brazil and Australia, have organised ‘Hack the Crisis’
    events.\n\n16:28 CET, 27 March: Norway issues €2.5M emergency call for collaborative
    projects\n\nThe Research Council of Norway launched a call to scientists in the
    country for research proposals to improve patient management and the national
    and international public health preparedness and response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
    Applicants are encouraged to work in cooperation with public and/or private sectors.
    The Research Council will provide between €85,000 -  €420,000 per project, with
    total funding of €2.5 million. Application deadline: 31 March.\n\n16:16 CET, 27
    March: Publisher to pay fees for COVID-19 related social sciences research\n\nEmerald
    Publishing has set up a £20,000 fund to cover publication fees for social sciences
    research relating to COVID-19 published on its open access platform. The UK company
    is interested in submissions focused on prevention and management, and on the
    impact of the coronavirus in healthcare systems. \n\n16:02 CET, 27 March: Novo
    Nordisk Foundation to invest €2.6M on preparedness for emerging viral infections\n\nThe
    Novo Nordisk Foundation is calling for submissions for interdisciplinary research
    to strengthen the response and preparedness of Denmark to new epidemic viral infections
    by improving surveillance and early detection, epidemiology research, and national
    preparedness. There are no restrictions on the locations of research groups, but
    the lead applicant must be located in Denmark. A total of DKK20 million (€2.6
    million) is available for two grants of up to DKK10 million. Application deadline:
    4 June.\n\n13:58 CET, 27 March: Japan launches fund to promote new approaches
    to emerging diseases research\n\nJapan’s Agency for Medical Research and Development
    wants to look outside traditional fields to find new approaches to dealing with
    COVID-19 and other emerging infectious diseases. The agency is looking for proposals
    that involve technology transfer from outside the biomedical field and which foster
    multidisciplinary research. The call is divided between two research areas. In
    the first, the agency aims to develop platform technologies for mounting an emergency
    R&D response to any emerging infectious disease. The second area of research is
    dedicated to the discovery and development of diagnostics and therapeutics. Application
    deadline: 13 April.\n\n12:05 CET, 27 March: Portugal launches €1.5M rapid response
    fund against COVID-19 \n\nPortugal’s Foundation for Science & Technology has set
    up a dedicated fund ‘Research 4 COVID-19’  to back the rapid implementation of
    R&D projects to tackle the virus. The purpose is mainly to support ongoing initiatives
    that are relevant to controlling COVID-19 infections and retargeting R&D projects
    to respond to the needs of the National Health Service. At the same time, the
    foundation said it will mobilise scientists in the country to take part in open
    data projects to address the COVID-19 crisis. The maximum funding for each project
    is of €30,000, with a total budget for the fund of €1.5 million. Application deadline:
    5 April.\n\n11:54 CET, 27 March: PRACE opens up supercomputers for COVID-19 research\n\nThe
    EU-backed Partnership for Advanced Computing in Europe (PRACE) has launched a
    fast track call for proposals from academic and industry researchers needing access
    to high performance computing resources to model COVID-19 and its impact. The
    scope includes mapping the spread of the coronavirus, tracking mutations and the
    evolution of the virus, developing therapeutics and vaccines, studying infection
    mechanisms and analysing the impact of the pandemic. Computing resources are available
    in France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Switzerland. PRACE says there will be a fast
    track review process with applications reviewed in one week, to provide swift
    feedback to applicants.\n\n17:31 CET, 26 March: Irish Centre for Artificial intelligence
    offers a hand in controlling COVID-19\n\nCeADAR, Ireland’s National Centre for
    Applied Data Analytics and Machine Intelligence, is offering its AI expertise
    to help companies, government agencies, medical centres and research charities
    develop AI tools to help track the virus and monitor compliance of the general
    public. The centre can help organisations with large data sets to apply machine
    learning techniques. Email CeADAR at: cv19@ceadar.ie.\n\n17:21 CET, 26 March:
    South Africa invests an additional R30 million in COVID-19 research\n\nThe South
    African Department of Science and Innovation said it will invest R30 million (€1.6
    million) in a variety of COVID-19 research projects.  Among these projects, the
    Centre for Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis is creating a model to track
    and slow the spread of the coronavirus, while science minister Blade Nzimande,
    said the department is working with several partners to evaluate the efficacy
    of repurposed drugs in treating COVID-19 patients. The announcement of additional
    funding for research comes after the decision to put South Africa on lockdown
    for three weeks, starting today at midnight.\n\n13:09 CET, 26 March: Countries
    link up to coordinate COVID-19 research\n\nEuropean Commissioner for Youth and
    Innovation, Mariya Gabriel and science ministers from 14 countries linked up in
    a conference call on Wednesday to exchange information on ongoing scientific projects
    on COVID-19. Countries on the call included Australia, Brazil, Canada, France,
    Germany, India, Italy, Spain, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea, Portugal, Singapore
    and the UK.\n\nThe 14 countries have signed a declaration to open up access to
    all the information published on the coronavirus. Participants also agreed on
    the urgent need to increase global production of protective equipment, respirators
    and diagnostic tests. In a discussion between Australia and Spain the two countries
    considered the possibility of circumventing patents, to accelerate licensing processes
    and the transfer of technology, so as to quickly manufacture certain products
    worldwide.\n\n11:40 CET. 26 March: Open innovation network aims to match COVID-19
    research initiatives with user needs   \n\nThe open innovation network Innoget
    has launched a page dedicated to COVID-19, listing technologies and research initiatives
    that could mitigate the pandemic, including innovation in areas such as rapidly
    deployable ventilators, technologies for discovering and developing treatments
    and therapeutics, and technologies to track and slow the pandemic. These will
    be disseminated to Innoget members, ranging from hospitals, research institutes,
    scientists, businesses, and public administrations, which are working to control
    the coronavirus.\n\n19:40 CET, 25 March: US Biomedical authority issues call for
    COVID-19 R&D\n\nThe US Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority
    is calling for projects in COVID-19 diagnostic assays, screening, model development,
    vaccines and advanced manufacturing. The total amount of funding that can be awarded
    will be less than $750,000.\nApplication deadline: 30 June 2020.\n\n19:30 CET,
    25 March: COVID-19 infects EU energy and climate policies\n\nThe Centre on Regulation
    in Europe (CERRE) outlines five ways in which COVID-19 could knock EU energy and
    climate policies off-track in a new article. The effects are being felt now, with
    the EU Emissions Trading System already exposed, as the carbon price fell to its
    lowest level since November 2018. The EU Green Deal plan needs to adapt to new
    circumstances, says Máximo Miccinilli, CERRE Energy Director.\n\n15:04 CET, 25
    March: US Department of Energy wants suggestions for how it can help beat COVID-19\n\nThe
    Office of Science at the US department of Energy (DOE) is asking for suggestions
    on how its resources could be applied to COVID-19 research. For example, it has
    supercomputing facilities that could be used for the study of virus-host interactions,
    for predictive modelling on viral stability and for resolving key viral drug targets.
    Research applications will be reviewed on an ongoing basis.\n\n13:53 CET, 25 March:
    US drug abuse agency calls for research proposals on COVID-19\n\nThe US National
    Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) issued a call for research on collecting and examining
    data on the risks and outcomes of COVID-19 infection in people with substance
    use disorders. NIDA says there is an urgent need to understand if substance use,
    such as smoking tobacco or marijuana, vaping, opioids and other drug use, is a
    risk factor for the progression of COVID-19. Grants of up to $100,000 per year
    will be awarded to cover direct costs. Applications will be accepted on a rolling
    basis starting on 31 March.\n\n13:00 CET, 25 March: US association to fund research
    on impact of COVID-19 on cardiovascular health\n\nThe American Heart Association
    launched a call for research proposals that will contribute to understanding,
    diagnosis and clinical management of exacerbations of cardiovascular disease that
    are caused by COVID-19  infections. Grants of up to $100,000 will be awarded to
    selected projects. One grant recipient will be chosen to set up a COVID-19 coordinating
    centre, which will help coordinate communication between awardees, establish collaborations
    where needed, and coordinate the findings of research teams. An additional award
    of up $150,000 will be available to set up the centre. Application deadline: 6
    April.\n\n12:00 CET, 25 March: Austria to invest €21M in COVID-19 industry research\n\nThe
    Austrian Federal Ministry for Digital and Economic Affairs and the Austrian Federal
    Ministry for Climate Action, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology
    are together investing €21 million in coronavirus-related business R&D. Contact
    the Austrian Research Promotion Agency, FFG for details. Proposals are due on
    April 8, 2020, for fast decisions, or May 11, 2020.  Click here for more information
    about the emergency call.\n\n11:37 CET, 25 March: UK research organisation launches
    COVID-19 research call\n\nThe British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy announced
    a COVID-19 funding call to support research to better understand and address the
    outbreak. Successful projects will receive grants of up to £25,000, with the possibility
    of exceptional grants in excess of £25,000. The funding call covers new projects
    and the extension of existing research projects in the area of infectious diseases.
    Application deadline: 17 April.\n\n11:30 CET, 25 March: University hospital Ghent
    and VIB test drugs to treat COVID-19 respiratory illness\n\nThe Vlaams Instituut
    voor Biotechnologie (VIB) and University Hospital Ghent have started a study testing
    Leukine, an inhaled formulation of an approved drug, developed by the US company
    Partner Therapeutics, in the treatment of patients with respiratory illness associated
    with COVID-19. Debasish Roychowdhury, chief medical officer at Partner, said the
    drug could help clear infection, boost the immune system and repair damaged tissues.
    The drug is already in phase II and III randomized trials in other lung infections.\n\n10:44
    CET, 25 March: Government science advisors postpone global conference\n\nThe International
    Network for Government Science Advice postponed its annual meeting in Montreal
    to 18-21 April 2021 – seven months later than planned. The group, a club for government
    scientific advisors around the world, is also setting up an online hub to gather
    COVID-19 policy developments and expects to mount an online conference about it
    15-16 September this year. \n\n10:30 CET, 25 March: US National Institutes of
    Health announces grants for novel coronavirus\n\nThe National Institute of Allergy
    and Infectious Diseases is offering grants for research to better understand COVID-19.
    There is a particular interest in viral natural history, pathogenicity, transmission,
    projects to develop medical countermeasures and suitable animal models for pre-clinical
    testing of vaccines and therapeutics. Application deadline: February 6, 2021.\n\n18:39
    CET, 24 March: MedFIT 2020 postponed \n\nThe organisers of MedFIT 2020, the medical
    devices conference due to start on 30 June in Grenoble, said the event has been
    postponed to 15 September. Delegates will be able to use their pre-booked passes
    and exhibition stands on the new date.\n\n17:39 CET, 24 March: UK postpones research
    excellence assessment\n\nThe Research Excellence Framework, the massive four-yearly
    exercise by which university departments in the UK are ranked on the quality and
    impact of their research, has been put on hold. In an update released by REF it
    said the submission deadline on 27 November no longer applies. A new deadline
    will be set later, once the situation around COVID-19 is clearer.\n\n17:21 CET,
    24 March: German Research Foundation to fund research on impacts of the pandemic\n\nThe
    German Research Foundation announces a multidisciplinary funding opportunity to
    investigate the impact of epidemics and pandemics, such as SARS-CoV-2.  Eligible
    researches should be based in Germany or work at a German research institution
    abroad. Application deadline: September 1. \n\n17:20 CET, 24 March: LifeArc to
    join in the fight against COVID-19 with an initial £10M\n\nLifeArc accepts applications
    from academics, National Health Service employees or companies to develop COVID-19
    therapeutics. Application deadline: April 6. \n\n16:35 CET, 24 March: European
    Discovery trial to evaluate four treatments for COVID-19\n\nA clinical trial involving
    3,200 patients in eight countries in Europe with severe COVID-19 infections, has
    been launched by the French national health research agency Inserm, to test four
    potential treatments for the coronavirus.  \n\nFrench researchers analysed data
    from the scientific literature on SARS and MERS coronaviruses and the first publications
    on COVID-19 from China, to draw up the list of antiviral drugs to be tested. The
    four are also classified as top priorities for clinical testing by the World Health
    Organization. The trial has an adaptive design, which means any drugs that are
    not effective can be dropped from the study, and can be replaced by compounds
    emerging from the huge international effort that is going into discovering new
    therapies.\n\nThe French arm of the study, in which 800 patients hospitalized
    with COVID-19 infections will be treated, is funded by the French Ministries of
    Higher Education, Research and Innovation and Health and Solidarity (MSS), with
    the support of EU research projects that are funded by the Innovative Medicines
    Initiative.\n\nStudy sites will also  be set up in Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg,
    the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and the UK, with site selection being influenced
    by the course of the epidemic.\n\n16:30 CET, 24 March: ERC lists 39 grantees doing
    COVID-19-related research\n\nThe European Research Council has published a list
    of 39 of its grantees across Europe who are doing frontier research in virology,
    epidemiology and other topics now relevant to COVID-19. Some, including Vittoria
    Colizza, a computational epidemiologist at France’s national health research agency
    INSERM, are also among recipients of the European Commission’s emergency COVID-19
    research grants, announced 20 March.\n\n16:04 CET, 24 March: GÉANT conference
    cancelled due to COVID-19 crisis\n\nGÉANT, the pan European network connecting
    39 national research and education establishments across Europe, announced it
    is cancelling its annual Conference TNC20, due to be held in Brighton UK, June
    8 - 12. While many other conferences are being held in virtual mode, such as this
    week’s BioEurope Spring, which was to have been in Paris, GÉANT has decided against
    using its extensive networks for this, because of the surge in demand for its
    services from institutions and schools that have been forced to switch to remote
    teaching and learning.\n\n15:46 CET, 24 March: Ireland announces fast funding
    of research in response to COVID-19 outbreak\n\nThe Irish Health Research Board
    has launched a rapid response mechanism to fund research that will provide evidence
    to inform national and global efforts to deal with the virus outbreak. The scope
    of the funding call covers medical countermeasures, health service readiness,
    and social and policy countermeasures against COVID-19. The Health Research Board
    in partnership with the Irish Research Council will allocate up to €200,000 funding
    for up to two years. Application deadline: April 6.\n\n15:19 CET, 24 March: Money
    from US National Science Foundation to model COVID-19 spread\n\nThe US National
    Science Foundation is offering up to €200,000 for proposals to conduct “non-medical,
    non-clinical-care research” that can be used immediately to better understand
    how to model and understand the spread of COVID-19; to inform and educate about
    the science of virus transmission and prevention; and to encourage the development
    of processes and actions to address this global challenge. There is no deadline.
    For any questions about submissions, email: rapid-covid19@nsf.gov. \n\n14:30 CET,
    24 March: French National Agency for Research (ANR) launches €3M flash fund \n\nThe
    French National Agency for Research announced a flash COVID-19 call with an accelerated
    evaluation and selection process for institutes, organisations and companies to
    apply for grants to carry out work focussed on the four priorities areas of COVID-19
    research set out by the World Health Organisation.\n\nMeanwhile, in light of the
    COVID-19 crisis, ANR said the deadlines for a number of calls for proposals related
    to other research have been postponed to give scientists more time to submit their
    proposals.\n\n14:15 CET, 24 March: Australian government to accelerate COVID-19
    therapeutics with A$13 million \n\nThe government announces A$13 million (€7 million)
    for research into coronavirus treatments. There will be an award of A$8 million
    for the development of antiviral therapies and A$5 million for better treatment
    and management of patients. \n\n13:15 CET, 24 March: CEPI awards $4.9M to vaccine
    research consortium led by Institut Pasteur\n\nThe Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness
    Innovations (CEPI) has kicked-started its eighth COVID-19 project in an agreement
    with a consortium led by the Institut Pasteur. Other partners include the University
    of Pittsburgh and the Austrian biotech Themis, with which the Institut Pasteur
    has collaborated on developing other vaccines, including against MERS and Lassa
    fever. \n\nThe consortium will receive an initial $4.9 million from CEPI, to support
    preclinical testing and initial manufacture, to lay the ground for phase I studies
    in human volunteers. The project will use an inactivated measles virus to deliver
    COVID-19 antigens directly to the compartment of the immune system capable of
    inducing a protective response. \n\nSince putting out its first call for proposals
    in February, CEPI has invested $29.2 million in COVID-19 vaccine R&D, with partners
    including Curevac, Moderna and Oxford University.\n\n12:18 CET, 24 March: UK government
    to invest £10.5M in 6 coronavirus projects\n\nThe UK government announced awards,
    worth £10.5 million, for six rapid response projects to address the COVID-19 emergency. Among
    the six projects, two will focus on pre-clinical and clinical vaccine trials,
    including vaccine manufacturing at a million-dose scale.\n\nOther projects aim to repurpose existing drugs to
    treat coronavirus patients, develop antibodies that target the virus and identify
    people with high risk infection. These awards are the first to be announced from
    a £20 million funded dedicated to R&D related to the coronavirus.\n\n11:25 CET,
    24 March: Novartis commits $20M to respond to COVID-19 pandemic\n\nNovartis is
    to provide $20 million (€18 million) to communities feeling the impact of the
    COVID-19 pandemic. Grants will be awarded to strengthen healthcare infrastructure,
    launching of digital platforms and support community health programmes. \n\n21:45
    CET, 23 March: CDC launches $10M call to research COVID-19 transmission and diagnostics\n\nThe
    US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention launched a call for proposals to
    study transmission dynamics, host infection dynamics and diagnostic testing capabilities
    of COVID-19. Eligible candidates are educational institutions, nonprofit organisations,
    not for profit organisations, state and local government, and private industry
    for research and development. Non-US citizens may participate, pending the CDC
    Foreign Disclosure Officer permission. Applications deadline: 25 March\n\n19:20
    CET, 23 March: New UCL study suggests need for stronger suppression measures from
    UK government\n\nA University College London (UCL) study estimated the current
    strategy to slow the spread of coronavirus could lead to at least 35,000-70,000
    excess deaths over one year. Findings of the study shows stronger suppression
    measures are needed and more efforts should be made to identify high-risk groups.
    Lead author of the paper, Amitava Banerjee, urges the government to be transparent
    about how extremely vulnerable groups are identified. \n\nAccording to Banerjee,
    current models to predict deaths from COVID-19 did not take into account of all
    people with underlying health conditions. The UK government identified up to 1.5
    million people, or 2.7% of the UK population, as being at higher risk of severe
    illness if they contract coronavirus, who should stay at home to protect themselves.
    However, the UCL team observed that at least 20 per cent of the UK population
    has one of the underlying conditions that put them at risk for severe COVID-19
    infection. \n\n18:30 CET, 23 March: Novo Nordisk launches DKK50M call for COVID-19
    research and mitigation\n\nDenmark’s Novo Nordisk Foundation said it has budgeted
    DKK50 million [€6.6 million] to fund research and mitigation strategies on COVID-19.
    It said the money can be used, in grants of up to DKK 5 million [€660,000] each,
    for scientific research on “new treatments, techniques / technologies or preventative
    measures”; initiatives to inform the general public; or measures to help socially
    vulnerable groups. Application deadline: 18 June.\n\n17:55 CET, 23 March: ETH
    Zurich to ‘drastically cut back’ research \n\nETH Zurich is reducing activities
    which require physical presence to “an absolute minimum”, said ETH President Joël
    Mesot. The Swiss university will switch to emergency operation, maintaining only
    essential activities on campus. All research not related to COVID-19 will be cut
    back.\n\n16:45 CET, 23 March: KTN asks academics and companies to join hackathon
    against COVID-19\n\nThe UK Knowledge Transfer Network (KTN), a government-funded
    body that promotes links between universities and companies, is calling on businesses,
    data scientists and biomedical researchers in the UK and beyond to participate
    in the hackathon, “CoronaHack – AI vs. Covid-19”, to share ideas on how to apply
    artificial intelligence to control and manage the COVID-19 pandemic. \n\nThere
    is an urgent demand for technologies, ranging from providing intensive care and
    rapid training and education of healthcare personnel, to supporting people who
    are self-isolating or working from home. The KTN says addressing these needs requires
    multi-disciplinary collaborations, with artificial intelligence (AI) being one
    part of the answer.  \n\n15:35 CET, 23 March: UK government to invest £20M in
    intensive sequencing of coronavirus genomes\n\nThe UK government announced it
    is to invest £20 million in the Covid-19 genomics consortium, a new genome sequencing
    initiative to track the evolution of the virus by sequencing multiple samples
    from patients with confirmed COVID-19 infections.  The aim is to better understand
    the spread of the coronavirus and how it is mutating over time.\n\nThere is already
    a global effort to track how the virus is changing as it passes from one human
    host to another on nextstrain.org, which has been collecting viral genome sequences
    since 20 January. It now has 885 sequences from around the world, including 89
    from the UK.\n\n13:20, CET, 23 March: New academic website details COVID-19’s
    pressure on EU healthcare\n\nA new project has been launched online, sharing data
    and studies about how the coronavirus is putting pressure on European healthcare
    systems. \n\nComparing the number of deaths and active cases in Italy as of 11
    March, the contributors have estimated how an Italian scenario would put pressure
    on a variety of European healthcare systems. Using the Eurostat database, key
    factors were considered, such as the number of hospital beds and doctors, as well
    as healthcare expenditure, for each European country.  \n\nThe study is funded
    through the European Commission’s Epipose project, which aims to provide evidence
    to back the clinical and public health response to the epidemic.\n\n9:55, CET,
    23 March: VUB engineers tackle imminent shortage of ventilation equipment \n\nA
    team of engineers at Vrije Universiteit Brussel’s FabLab Brussels have started
    building and testing an artificial ventilator for critical COVID-19 patients. They
    started from a design by MIT, extended with sensors based on specifications from
    researchers at Johns Hopkins University and the UZ Brussel. Large-scale production
    is still premature. Researchers will establish in the coming days and weeks whether
    the devices can actually be used in hospitals. \n\n17:14 CET, 21 March: Spanish
    Government enlists the help of robots to boost its coronavirus testing\n\nRaquel
    Yotti, director of the Carlos III Public Health Institute, confirmed during the
    press conference of the Government's Coronavirus Technical Management Committee
    that the government plans to acquire four robots which could bring the daily number
    of tests to 80,000 (compared to 15,000-20,000 a day at the moment).\n\n16:40 CET,
    20 March: Swiss biopharmaceutical company postpones multiple sclerosis trial \n\nGeNeuro,
    a company focused on neurodegenerative and autoimmune diseases, announced it is
    postponing a phase II trial of its treatment for multiple sclerosis. The trial,
    due to be held at the Karolinska Institutet, will be delayed to allow the hospital
    to prioritise its resources for COVID-19 patients, and to assure the safety of
    multiple sclerosis patients.\n\n15:45 CET, 20 March: ESOF postponed until September
    \n\nEuroScience has postponed its biennial EuroScience Open Forum (ESOF) from
    5 July to 2 September due to the coronavirus crisis. The organiser said the conference
    will take place, as planned, in Trieste, Italy. By September, EuroScience will
    make teleconferencing available and amplify sessions about public health and environment
    topics. ESOF is an interdisciplinary meeting on Science and Innovation in Europe,
    bringing together scientists to think about their practices and roles in society.\n\n15:10
    CET, 20 March: Spanish Antarctic science mission to return home ahead of schedule
    due to coronavirus crisis\n\nThe two Antarctic bases Juan Carlos I and Gabriel
    de Castilla have been closed a week ahead of schedule because of the coronavirus
    outbreak. The research vessel Hespérides, in charge of mapping oceanic activity,
    will try to disembark its 37 civilian and military passengers in Brazil, to fly
    back to Spain. The Spanish Antarctic campaign, financed by the Ministry of Science
    and Innovation, is comprised of 13 scientific projects, promoting cooperation
    between public and private institutions of R&D.\n\n15:00 CET, 20 March: UK government
    publishes scientific evidence supporting its response\n\nThe Scientific Advisory
    Group for Emergencies (SAGE), relying on expert group guidance, has been giving
    advice to the UK government on how to handle the coronavirus crisis. The joint
    statements and evidence cover a wide scope of research fields, such as behavioural
    science, social interventions, impact of self-isolation and insights on mass gatherings.
    Imperial College London also contributed to the advice, with reports about transmissibility
    and severity of COVID-19.\n\n14:04 CET, 20 March: A map of global countermeasures
    compiled by Olivier Lejeune, Analyst at the International Energy Agency (IEA)\n\n\n\n12:30
    CET, 20 March: LERU calls for extended deadline on health work programme\n\nThe
    League of European Research Universities (LERU), an association for research-intensive
    universities, urged the European Commission to extend deadlines on the health,
    demographic change and well-being Work Programme. Funded through Horizon 2020,
    this call aims to promote healthy and active ageing. Kurt Deketelaere, Secretary
    General of LERU, called upon Research Commissioner Mariya Gabriel to extend the
    deadlines for the calls until 15 June 2020, saying “many potential beneficiaries
    are now highly occupied by their clinical jobs” treating patients.\n\n19:45 CET,
    19 March: UK introduces an Emergency Coronavirus Bill to the Parliament\n\nThe
    Bill enables action in 5 key areas: Increasing the available health and social
    care workforce; Easing the burden on frontline staff; Containing and slowing the
    virus – by reducing unnecessary social contacts;  Managing the deceased with respect
    and dignity – by enabling the death management system to deal with increased demand
    for its services; Supporting people – by allowing them to claim Statutory Sick
    Pay from day one, and by supporting the food industry to maintain supplies.Detail
    of the Bill can be found here and you can view the Bill itself here.\n\n18:30
    CET, 19 March: EU to set up €50 million medical equipment stockpile\n\nThe European
    Commission is to create its first ever common reserve of emergency medical equipment,
    with an initial budget of €50 million, of which €40 million is still subject budgetary
    approval. One or more member states can submit bids to host stockpiles and would
    be in charge of procuring the equipment. \n\nNamed the “rescEU stockpile”, the
    reserve would include intensive care medical equipment such as ventilators, reusable
    masks, vaccines, therapeutics, and laboratory supplies. rescEU is part of the
    EU Civil Protection Mechanism, a joint effort by EU member states and six other
    countries in Europe to prepare and respond to disasters. \n\n17:00 CET, 19 March: COST
    open call to be postponed until October 2020\n\nCOST, an EU-funded programme that
    supports cross-border networking in research and innovation, said it is postponing
    the deadline for an open call for proposals from scientists, due to the coronavirus.
    It also suspended from 13 March all physical meetings and short-term scientific
    missions. The call deadline has been postponed to 29 October instead of 29 April,
    so researchers will have more time to develop their proposals.\n\n15:00 CET, 19
    March: Nature study estimates clinical severity of COVID-19 in Wuhan\n\nA Nature
    Medicine paper based on publicly available data shows that, as of 29 February,
    the probability of dying after developing symptoms of COVID-19 in Wuhan is 1.4
    per cent. The number is significantly lower than the confirmed case fatality risk
    of 4.5 per cent. The study also estimates those infected aged below 30 were 0.6
    times more likely to die after developing symptoms. Infected people above 59 years
    were 5.1 times more likely to die.\n\n11:00 CET, 19 March: Washington sets up
    AI library for COVID-19 researchers\n\nThe US government launched a big database
    of published research on COVID-19, to “to come together as companies, governments,
    and scientists and work to bring our best technologies to bear across biomedicine,
    epidemiology, AI, and other sciences”. The COVID-19 Open Research Dataset (CORD-19)
    is addressed to the world's artificial intelligence experts to develop text and
    data mining tools for coronavirus research. The initiatives involves Allen Institute
    for AI, Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI), Microsoft, and the National Library
    of Medicine, and it is coordinated by Georgetown University. Kaggle, a Google
    subsidiary, and a data science company, announced a reward for those with best
    contributions.\n\n19:15 CET, 18 March: Synairgen announces rapid COVID-19 trial\n\nRespiratory
    diseases specialist Synairgen has received expedited approval from the UK Medicines
    and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) for a pilot trial of its lead
    product SNG001 in 100 patients who have been hospitalized with severe COVID-19
    symptoms. SNG001, an inhaled formulation of naturally-occurring beta interferon,
    is intended to activate antiviral immune reactions in the lung. The product is
    being tested in COVID-19 patients after showing a positive effect in asthma and
    in treating exacerbations of the lung disease chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder.
    “We have worked intensively with the relevant authorities and collaborators to
    enable SNG001 to be assessed in COVID-19 patients. SNG001 has been well tolerated
    in clinical trials in over 200 respiratory patients to date and has accelerated
    lung function recovery in two Phase II asthma trials in patients with a cold or
    flu infection,” said Richard Marsden, CEO of Synairgen.  \n\n19:00 CET, 18 March: Swiss
    biotech company puts Parkinson’s disease drug on hold due to coronavirus\n\nAddex
    Therapeutics announced today it is postponing a clinical trial in Parkinson’s
    disease patients. The decision has been taken due to these patients being one
    of the highest risk category for severe COVID-19, and because the clinical sites
    that were due to conduct the study have been told to not to start any new trials.
    “We care about the well-being of all PD patients and do not wish to have them
    make the additional visits to doctors’ offices that are required in a clinical
    study, putting them at increased risk of contracting COVID-19,” said Roger Mills,
    chief medical officer of Addex.\n\n18:00 CET, 18 March: EIC extends deadline for
    COVID-19 €164 million call\n\nThe European Commission has announced a new deadline
    for the EIC accelerator call for startups and SMEs working on treating, testing,
    monitoring or other aspects of the Coronavirus outbreak. The new deadline is 20
    March at 17:00. With a budget of €164 million, this call is “bottom up”, meaning
    there are no predefined thematic priorities and applicants with Coronavirus relevant
    innovations will be evaluated in the same way as other applicants. The initial
    deadline was 18 March. \n\n16:45 CET, 18 March: New UCL study shows shortness
    of breath is key predictor for severe COVID-19\n\nA new systematic review and
    meta-analysis from University College London could help to inform public health
    and clinical management strategies, through the prioritisation of those at highest-risk
    of severe illness with COVID-19. The findings show that patients presenting shortness
    of breath and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are the most likely to have
    severe COVID-19 and admission into intensive care units.\n\n13:50 CET, 18 March: Poland’s
    science funder promises leniency on submissions; recommends against foreign travel\n\nThe
    National Science Centre in Poland says that annual reports for research projects
    and post-doctoral fellowships must be submitted by agreed dates. \n\nHowever,
    the funder promises leniency for those affected by coronavirus.\n\nIn addition,
    the Centre recommends that scientists reconsider any trips to research labs outside
    of the country.\n\n13:40 CET, 18 March: Sweden’s innovation agency vows to carry
    on in face of coronavirus \n\nVinnova, Sweden’s innovation agency, has said it
    will not let coronavirus affect its core activities. \n\n“Our calls for proposals
    and decisions on funding of research and innovation proceeds as usual,” the agency
    says on its website.\n\nMost of Vinnova's employees will work from home until
    further notice, however, with the majority of agency meetings moving online. \n\n13:30
    CET, 18 March: Commission: airlines must reimburse or re-route cancelled flights\n\nThe
    European Commission issued guidelines to airlines “to ensure EU passenger rights
    are applied in a consistent manner across the EU.” It said if an airline cancels
    a flight, it “must reimburse or re-route the passengers.” If the passengers cancel
    their own journeys, then reimbursement depends on the ticket type, and airlines
    may issue vouchers.\n\n12:50 CET, 18 March: China says Japanese flu drug “very
    effective” against COVID-19\n\nZhang Xinmin, head of the China National Center
    for Biotechnology Development said in a press conference that the antiviral drug
    Favipiravir was proven very effective in clinical studies conducted on 200 patients.
    \"In view of the safety, obvious efficacy and availability of the drug, researchers
    have officially recommended favipiravir to medical teams and suggested it be included
    in the treatment plan as soon as possible,\" he said.\n\n12:45 CET, 18 March:
    Spain approves up to €30 million for coronavirus research\n\nA total of €30 million
    has been allocated by the Spanish government to research projects on coronavirus,
    with €24 million going to the Carlos III Health Institute (ISCIII). The institute
    will develop an urgent aid programme for projects that aim to generate knowledge
    about the infection. The National Center for Biotechnology at the Spanish National
    Research Council will get €4.5 million to study the new coronavirus and work on
    the development of vaccines.\n\n18:05 CET, 17 March: Participant in Moderna's
    clinical trial receives first COVID-19 vaccine dose\n\nUS vaccine company Moderna
    has announced the first participant has been dosed in NIH-led Phase 1 Study using
    their COVID19 vaccine candidate. \n\nThis Phase 1 study will provide important
    data on the safety and immunogenicity of mRNA-1273. Immunogenicity means the ability
    of the vaccine to induce an immune response in participants. The open-label trial
    is expected to enroll 45 healthy adult volunteers ages 18 to 55 years over approximately
    six weeks.\n\n17:55 CET, 17 March: Commission president hopes EU funded vaccine
    to be ready 'before autumn'\n\nThe European Commission has offered of up to €80
    million in financial support to the German biotech CureVac AG. “I hope that with
    this support we can have a vaccine on the market perhaps before autumn,\" said
    EU commission president Ursula von der Leyen. \"This could save lives in Europe
    and in the rest of the world,\" she said. \n\n15:55 CET, 17 March: EIT staff banned
    from business travel\n\nMost staff at the European Institute of Innovation and
    Technology (EIT) is now working remotely until further notice. \"We are working
    hard to ensure our organisation remains fully operational and delivers full business
    continuity during this exceptional period,\" the EIT said in a statement.\n\nEIT
    staff are barred from business travel, events or meetings, while visits to the
    EIT Headquarters in Budapest and the EIT Liaison Office are postponed or cancelled.\n\n\"We
    aim to not disturb the EIT's core activities though certain non-critical activities
    may need to be re-prioritised,\" the statement said.\n\n15:50 CET, 17 March: Oxford team develops coronavirus
    mobile app for instant contact tracing\n\nA team of medical research and bioethics
    at the Oxford University has provided European governments, including the UK,
    with evidence to support the feasibility of developing a contact tracing mobile
    app that is instant, could be widely deployed, and should be implemented with
    appropriate ethical considerations. The team recommends that the mobile application
    should form part of an integrated coronavirus control strategy that identifies
    infected people and their recent person-to-person contacts using digital technology.\n\n15:45
    CET, 17 March: Commission extends Erasmus+ deadlines\n\nThe European Commission
    has announced it will extend deadlines for Erasmus+ strategic partnerships and
    for the Erasmus charter for higher education. \n\nThe commission recommends authorities
    in member states to invoke force majeure clauses that would enable them to postpone
    planned activities in the EU’s exchange programme Erasmus+ and to increase costs
    incurred by the outbreak. Many participants are unable to travel to other countries,
    while others are unable to return home from host institutions abroad. \n\n15:40
    CET, 17 March: Scottish company announces new programme for COVID-19 treatment\n\nPneumagen
    Ltd, focused on treating infectious disease and oncology by targeting the human
    glycome, today announced it has initiated a new programme to prevent and treat
    coronavirus COVID-19 infections using its first-in-class Carbohydrate Binding
    Modules (mCBMs), generated using its proprietary GlycoTarge™ platform.\n\n15:20
    CET, 17 March: Public Health England orders Novacyt tests worth £1.0 million\n\nFollowing
    the completion of Public Health England’s (PHE) formal evaluation of Primerdesign COVID-19
    test, as announced on 12 March 2020, the government agency has started ordering
    the test. Orders are initially for eight hospitals to provide stocks in those
    locations for four weeks of planned testing. The total value of the initial purchase
    is approximately £1.0 million (€1.1 million), which is the single largest order
    the developing company Novacyt has received to date for its COVID-19 test.\n\n15:00
    CET, 17 March: Belgian lab achieves important milestone in the development of
    a COVID-19 drug\n\nEarlier this year, the lab of Xavier Saelens (VIB-UGent) announced
    the discovery of a unique antibody that is capable of binding the virus that causes
    COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2). The antibody was developed in collaboration with two research
    groups in the US.\n\nThe team has now established that the antibody can neutralize
    a lab variant of the virus, an important step forward in the development of a
    potential antiviral drug against the new coronavirus.\n\n14:31 CET, 17 March:
    Novartis joins R&D efforts with Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Wellcome, and
    Mastercard\n\nNovartis is to join collaborative R&D efforts with the Bill & Melinda
    Gates Foundation, Wellcome, and Mastercard -supported COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator
    and a partnership with the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI).\n\n\"Recognizing
    the power of working together as an industry, we are also bringing the talent
    and capabilities of our industry-leading R&D organization to two leading and important
    collaborative R&D initiatives,\" said CEO Vas Narasimhan. \n\n14:26 CET, 17 March:
    Finnish universities start moving courses online\n\nThe University of Eastern
    Finland will close its campuses and moves all teaching online, in accordance with
    the instructions issued by the Finnish Government on 16 March. All facilities
    of the University of Eastern Finland are closed as of today.\n\n14:25 CET, 17
    March: South Africa announces coronavirus research funding \n\nSouth Africa's
    Department of Science and Innovation (DSI) has redirected R4 million (€219,000) from
    some of its projects to research on COVID-19. The Department is supporting local
    research that will focus on surveillance, therapeutics and understanding the local
    epidemiology and natural history of the virus, which has infected in South Africa
    62 people so far.\n\n10:30 CET, 17 March: Imperial research prompts u-turn in
    UK public health strategy\n\nPolicy recommendations by researchers at Imperial College
    London has prompted the UK government to rethink its strategy against the COVID-19
    outbreak. On Monday evening, prime minister Boris Johnson called on UK citizens
    to avoid non-essential contact and to avoid public spaces. \"Now is the time for
    everyone to stop non-essential contact with others and to stop all unnecessary
    travel,\" Johnson said. \n\nThe Imperial report used epidemiological modelling
    to predict outcomes of different combinations of containment strategies. The results
    show the UK should supplement its self-isolation measures by school and university
    closures.\n\n09:35 CET, 17 March: Gabriel extends Horizon 2020 deadlines\n\nEU
    commissioner for research and innovation Mariya Gabriel announced a deadline extension
    for proposals. All deadlines between 17 March and 15 April are postponed by one
    week.  due today. More information will be soon available on the EU's funding
    and tenders portal.\n\n09:00 CET, 17 March: EIB to make extra funding available
    for cure and vaccine development\n\nThe European Investment Bank (EIB) will use
    its InnovFin Infectious Disease Finance Facility, to finance research on halting
    the spread of COVID-19, but also on cures and vaccine development. The funding
    is in addition to €40 billion in emergency funding to support the economy through
    the crisis. The EIB's current pipeline of projects in the health sector amounts
    to around €5 billion. \n\nEIB president Werner Hoyer said: “We will build on what
    we already do for the health sector. We are already in contact with companies
    and organisations seeking to fund the search for Covid-19 vaccines and medication.
    We are all living through trying times, and the EIB Group will work without pause
    to ensure the EU bank contributes to the rapid resolution of this terrible crisis.”\n\n18:44
    CET, 16 March: EU promises more funding to CureVac for coronavirus vaccine development\n\nThe
    president of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and research commissioner
    Mariya Gabriel have promised German vaccine developer CureVac more EU funding,
    after media reports unveiled attempts by US president Donald Trump to secure exclusive
    distribution of CureVac's vaccine against COVID-19 which is still under development.
    \"[It is] crucial to find [as soon as possible] the vaccine that will help the
    whole world,\" Von der Leyen said in a tweet.\n\n16:35 CET, 16 March: University
    of Pisa waives interest fees for delayed tuition payments\n\n\"This epidemic is
    causing enormous difficulties for many families and it was imperative to do something,”
    said rector Paolo Mancarella. “I had made this promise to the students in an email
    a few days ago and promises must be kept.\"\nPaolo Mancarella during the first
    web meeting in the history of the University of Pisa16:10 CET, 16 March: Academy
    of Finland vows to stick to research deadlines \n\nResearch funders everywhere
    are changing their plans as the COVID-19 emergency grows, but Academy of Finland
    aims to keep all its competitions running on track. \n\n“The coronavirus situation
    will not cause any changes to our decision schedules or call deadlines,” the Helsinki-based
    funder says on its website. \n\nHowever, all Academy events and meetings for this
    Spring, which aren’t cancelled or postponed, will move online. \n\n16:02 CET,
    16 March: China's Fosun Pharma to invest €44 million in German company with promising coronavirus
    vaccine candidate\n\nThe investment is part of a €120 million deal between Fosun
    Pharma and BioNTech to jointly conduct clinical trials in China. The vaccine will
    be commercialised in China by Fosun, while BioNTech will retain full rights to
    develop and commercialise the vaccine in the rest of the world.\n\n15:43 CET,
    16 March: Irish research agencies promise flexibility in face of COVID-19\n\nIreland’s
    main research funding bodies – the Health Research Board, the Irish Research Council
    and Science Foundation Ireland – have promised flexibility for applicants whose
    research projects are “unavoidably delayed” by the coronavirus outbreak.  \n\nThe
    funders say they will give “due consideration” to pushing back deadlines and restructuring
    project deliverables.  \n\nFull statement here\n\n14:45 CET, 16 March: ERC panels
    carry on reviewing proposals remotely\n\nThe European Research Council (ERC) said
    grant management is to carry on as usual, but it does not exclude the possibility
    of \"certain technical and/or IT access constraints.\" \n\nAt the same time, ERC
    evaluators are reviewing proposals remotely. \"We are confident that this will
    allow us to finalise the ongoing Step 1 evaluations of Starting Grants by the
    end of this week,\" the ERC said in a statement. \"For the moment, we do not anticipate
    any delays with upcoming evaluations or application deadlines.\"\n\n12:12 CET,
    16 March: UK universities to gradually move courses online\n\nThe University of
    Sussex has suspended its courses until 23 March when it expects to be able to
    move lectures on to e-learning systems. The University campus will remain open
    and essential services will still be provided.\n\nSussex joins a growing list
    of UK universities that have decided to move courses online. The London School
    of Economics took the measure on Thursday and University College London on Friday.
    Universities of Aberdeen, Portsmouth, Salford, Heriot-Watt, Swansea and others
    have followed suit. \n\n12:00 CET, 16 March: ENISA director shares top tips for
    teleworking in times of crisis\n\nENISA, the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity
    gives essential advice to secure devices from potential hackers taking advantage
    of the coronavirus crisis, inviting employers to define a clear procedure to follow
    in case of a security incident and to consider restricting access to sensitive
    systems. In its security note, ENISA also warns that “attackers are exploiting
    the situation, so look out for phishing emails and scams.”\n\n11:51 CET, 16 March:
    Charles Michel convenes EU leaders to talk boosting R&D efforts\n\nEuropean Council
    president has called for a video conference of EU leaders to discuss ways of \"boosting
    research\" against the fast-spreading virus. The meeting will take place on Tuesday
    with leaders e expected to brainstorm on concerted actions to contain the spread
    of the virus, provide sufficient medical equipment, and limit the economic fallout.\n\n11:00
    CET, 16 March: Estonia holds hackaton for moonshot ideas\n\nAccelerate Estonia
    and Garage48 hosted an online hackathon, called Hack the crisis, to get ideas
    from IT and innovation professionals for solutions to the crisis situations, that
    can be tested in 48 hours and give Estonia the edge for the post-crisis phase.
    According to Estonian Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kaimar
    Karu, the 5 strongest ideas will receive a €5000 support to develop their idea
    during the emergency situation.\n\n9:40 CET, 16 March: Main CureVac shareholder
    snubs Trump attempt to get exclusive access to its vaccine R&D\n\nThe main shareholder
    of CureVac, a German company with a promising COVID-19 vaccine in the pipeline,
    said the results of its research will not be available \"only regionally\", after
    media reports unveiled attempts by US president Donald Trump to secure exclusive
    distribution of CureVac's vaccine against COVID-19 which is still under development. Dietmar
    Hopp of dievini Hopp BioTech, a holding that owns 80 per cent of CureVac shares said
    \"Hopefully, we will soon succeed in developing an effective vaccine against the
    coronavirus. This vaccine should be available not only regionally, but to people
    all over the world in solidarity to help and protect them.\"\n\n8:56 CET, 16 March:
    Dutch researchers discover COVID-19 antibody\n\nResearchers from Utrecht University,
    Erasmus University Medical Center and biotech company Harbor BioMed, have developed
    a human antibody that can inhibit the new coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. While promising,
    the discovery should not raise false expectations, said research leader Berend-Jan
    Bosch of Utrecht University. \"It is a promising first step, but it is far too
    early to speculate about the potential efficacy in humans,\" the university said
    in a statement.\n\n8:50 CET, 16 March: G7 leaders to discuss vaccine R&D coordination
    today\n\nFrench president Emmanual Macron announced all G7 leaders agreed to organise
    an emergency video conference to coordinate research efforts on a vaccine and
    treatments. \n\n14:30 CET, 14 March: EIC Accelerator welcomes innovations to tackle
    outbreak from startups and SMEs with €164 million budget\n\nThe European Commission
    is calling for startups and SMEs with technologies and innovations that could
    help in treating, testing, monitoring or other aspects of the Coronavirus outbreak
    to apply urgently to the next round of funding from the European Innovation Council.
    The deadline for applications to the EIC Accelerator is 17:00 on Wednesday 18
    March (Brussels local time). With a budget of €164 million, this call is “bottom
    up”, meaning there are no predefined thematic priorities.\n\n18:35 CET, 13 March:
    WHO announces COVID-19 response fund: money will go to vaccine development, amongst
    other causes \n\nThe fund, the first-of-its-kind, enables private individuals,
    corporations and institutions anywhere in the world to come together to directly
    contribute to global response efforts, and has been created by the United Nations
    Foundation and the Swiss Philanthropy Foundation, together with WHO. \n\n“We are
    at a critical point in the global response to COVID-19 – we need everyone to get
    involved in this massive effort to keep the world safe,” said Dr. Tedros Adhanom
    Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General.\n\n18:04 CET, 13 March: Norway adds €3.2 million to
    international vaccine R&D efforts\n\nThe government of Norway is to give an additional
    €3.2 million to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) for
    vaccine development, in bid to help ongoing R&D efforts to contain the pandemic,.
    Norway was one of the nine countries taking the initiative to create CEPI, and
    now has increased its total yearly contribution to €25 million.\n\n17:10 CET,
    13 March: European Medicines Agency to offer fee waiver for scientific advice \n\nThe
    European Medicines Agency (EMA) will waive any fees for scientific advice given
    to developers of potential therapeutics and vaccines against COVID-19. \n\nWith
    this fast-track scientific advice, the agency can give developers prompt guidance
    and direction on the best methods and study designs to generate robust information
    on how well a medicine or vaccine works and how safe it is.\n\nScientists should
    contact EMA at 2019-ncov@ema.europa.eu\n\n13 March: Canada announces results of
    C$27 million rapid research funding call\n\nThe Canadian government has published
    the results for its first call on COVID-19. Out of 227 applications, 47 projects
    will receive a total of C$26.8 million. \n\nTwo thirds of the funding will be
    spent on projects working on diagnostics, vaccines, therapeutics, clinical management
    and transmission dynamics. The rest of the money will be spent on social and policy
    countermeasures, including research on the public health response, social dynamics,
    and coordination, governance and logistics.\n\n\n\n13 March: France picks 20 research
    projects in €8 million call\n\nThe Alliance for Health and Life Sciences (Aviesan)
    is accelerating research on the virus and launched 20 projects which are to be
    hosted by several research institutes in France, including CNRS and Institut Pasteur.
    Projects will focus on diagnostics, therapeutics, epidemiology, fundamental research
    and social sciences. \n\n13 March: French president hopes effective treatments
    could be found in coming weeks and months \n\nAll universities in France will
    shut down on Monday, French president Emmanuel Macron said in a statement on Thursday
    evening. Macron reassured citizens that French scientists are working to come
    up quickly with diagnostics and treatments. “I hope that in the coming weeks and
    months, we will have the first treatments,” he said.\n\n13 March: The University
    of Eastern Finland bans staff and students from travelling abroad\n\nIn addition
    to a ban on all upcoming travel plans, the university urges all students and staff
    who are returning from abroad to work and study from home for 14 days before coming
    back on campus. Those who will choose to disregard the travel ban will not get
    paid for the 14-day stay-at-home period upon their return. \n\n13 March: The Research
    Council of Norway launches €2.6 million emergency call on COVID-19\n\nThe funding
    agency is making available NOK 30 million (2.6€ million) for projects that focus
    on finding out best containment strategies and investigate efficient patient management
    and public health preparedness for the current and future outbreaks. \n\n "
  twitterimage: https://sciencebusiness.net/sites/default/files/styles/article/public/2020-03/bigstock-Coronavirus-In-China-Novel-Co-347904061.jpg?itok=BOyk_4J9
  twittersite: '@scibus'
  twittersiteid: '62499092'
  twittertitle: 'LIVE BLOG: R&D response to COVID-19 pandemic'
type: communities/medigy-pandemic
---

The coronavirus pandemic is disrupting universities and research institutes across the world. But the same institutions are also working very hard to find out how the disease can be stopped and its effects mitigated.

Follow this live blog for the latest updates on how the crisis is impacting research and innovation, and what governments, funders, companies, universities, associations and scientists are doing to stop or cope with the pandemic.<br><br><a target="_blank" href=https://sciencebusiness.net/news/live-blog-rd-response-covid-19-pandemic>Read on sciencebusiness.net</a>