---
aliases: /news/medicare-coverage-and-payment-of-telehealth-telemedicine-and-virtual-services
archetype: news
author:
- Shahid Shah
basePath: /communities/pandemic/curated-news/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /communities/
- /communities/pandemic/
- /communities/pandemic/curated-news
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- Communities
- Pandemic Community
- Curated News
- Medicare coverage and payment of telehealth, telemedicine, and virtual services
categories: []
contentCategories: medigy-pandemic-curated-news
date: '2020-03-29T11:30:47.758628Z'
description: Telehealth, telemedicine, and related terms generally refer to the exchange
  of medical information from one site to another through electronic communication
  to improve a patient’s health. Innovative
favIconImage:
  alt: Medicare coverage and payment of telehealth, telemedicine, and virtual services
  format: ICO
  href: 821ecb28-24ed-5349-8664-8013c821167c-favIconImage.ico
  size:
  - 32
  - 32
  valid: true
  workPackage: 1845
  wpAttachment:
    fileName: Curated_Source_FavIcon.png
    link: /api/v3/attachments/5128/content
htmlMetaData:
- Generator: Drupal 8 (https://www.drupal.org)
  HandheldFriendly: 'true'
  MobileOptimized: width
  description: "Medicare coverage and payment of virtual services \n\nINTRODUCTION:"
  viewport: width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0
id: 1845
identifier: Pandemic Community
lastMod: '2020-03-29T11:30:49.014375Z'
link:
  brand: ''
  href: ''
  original: null
mastHead: Pandemic Community CoP
mdName: 821ecb28-24ed-5349-8664-8013c821167c
openGraphMetaData:
- null
openProjectCustomFields: {}
openProjectWorkPackageType: Curated News
owlType: Medigy Communities
searchCategory: News
slug: -medicare-coverage-and-payment-of-telehealth-telemedicine-and-virtual-services
source: open-project-curations
status: ''
sub: brief
tags:
- news
title: Medicare coverage and payment of telehealth, telemedicine, and virtual services
twitterMetaData:
- null
type: communities/medigy-pandemic
---

<p>Telehealth, telemedicine, and related terms generally refer to the exchange of medical information from one site to another through electronic communication to improve a patient’s health. Innovative uses of this kind of technology in the provision of healthcare is increasing.&nbsp; And with the emergence of the virus causing the disease COVID-19, there is an urgency to expand the use of technology to help people who need routine care, and keep vulnerable beneficiaries and beneficiaries with mild symptoms in their homes while maintaining access to the care they need. Limiting community spread of the virus, as well as limiting the exposure to other patients and staff members will slow viral spread.</p><p><a href="https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/fact-sheets/medicare-telemedicine-health-care-provider-fact-sheet">Read on cms.gov</a></p><p><strong>MEDICARE TELEHEALTH VISITS</strong>:&nbsp; Currently, Medicare patients may use telecommunication technology for office, hospital visits and other services that generally occur in-person.&nbsp;</p><ul><li><i>Effective for services starting March 6, 2020 and for the duration of the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, Medicare will make payment for Medicare telehealth services furnished to patients in broader circumstances.&nbsp;</i></li><li><i>These visits are considered the same as in-person visits and are paid at the same rate as regular, in-person visits.</i></li><li><i>Starting March 6, 2020 and for the duration of the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, Medicare will make payment for professional services furnished to beneficiaries in all areas of the country in all settings.&nbsp;</i></li><li><i>While they must generally travel to or be located in certain types of originating sites such as a physician’s office, skilled nursing facility or hospital for the visit, effective for services starting March 6, 2020 and for the duration of the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, Medicare will make payment for Medicare telehealth services furnished to beneficiaries in any healthcare facility and in their home.</i></li><li><i>The Medicare coinsurance and deductible would generally apply to these services. However, the HHS Office of Inspector General (OIG) is providing flexibility for healthcare providers to reduce or waive cost-sharing for telehealth visits paid by federal healthcare programs.</i></li><li><i>To the extent the 1135 waiver requires an established relationship, HHS will not conduct audits to ensure that such a prior relationship existed</i> <i>for claims submitted during this public health emergency.</i></li></ul><p><strong>VIRTUAL CHECK-INS:</strong> In all areas (not just rural), established Medicare patients in their home may have a brief communication service with practitioners via a number of communication technology modalities including synchronous discussion over a telephone or exchange of information through video or image. We expect that these virtual services will be initiated by the patient; however, practitioners may need to educate beneficiaries on the availability of the service prior to patient initiation.&nbsp;</p><ul><li><i>Virtual check-in services can only be reported when the billing practice has an established relationship with the patient.&nbsp;&nbsp;</i></li><li><i>This is not limited to only rural settings or certain locations.</i></li><li><i>Individual services need to be agreed to by the patient; however, practitioners may educate beneficiaries on the availability of the service prior to patient agreement.&nbsp;&nbsp;</i></li><li><i>HCPCS code G2012: Brief communication technology-based service, e.g. virtual check-in, by a physician or other qualified health care professional who can report evaluation and management services, provided to an established patient, not originating from a related e/m service provided within the previous 7 days nor leading to an e/m service or procedure within the next 24 hours or soonest available appointment; 5-10 minutes of medical discussion.</i></li><li><i>HCPCS code G2010: Remote evaluation of recorded video and/or images submitted by an established patient (e.g., store and forward), including interpretation with follow-up with the patient within 24 business hours, not originating from a related e/m service provided within the previous 7 days nor leading to an e/m service or procedure within the next 24 hours or soonest available appointment.</i></li><li><i>Virtual check-ins can be conducted with a broader range of communication methods, unlike Medicare telehealth visits, which require audio and visual capabilities for real-time communication.</i></li></ul><p><strong>E-VISITS:&nbsp; </strong>In all types of locations including the patient’s home, and in all areas (not just rural), established Medicare patients may have non-face-to-face patient-initiated communications with their doctors without going to the doctor’s office by using online patient portals. These services can only be reported when the billing practice has an established relationship with the patient. For these <strong>E-Visits</strong>, the patient must generate the initial inquiry and communications can occur over a 7-day period. The services may be billed using CPT codes 99421-99423 and HCPCS codes G2061-G2063, as applicable. The patient must verbally consent to receive virtual check-in services. The Medicare coinsurance and deductible would apply to these services.</p><ul><li><i>These services can only be reported when the billing practice has an established relationship with the patient.&nbsp;&nbsp;</i></li><li><i>This is not limited to only rural settings. There are no geographic or location restrictions for these visits.</i></li><li><i>Patients communicate with their doctors without going to the doctor’s office by using online patient portals.</i></li><li><i>Individual services need to be initiated by the patient; however, practitioners may educate beneficiaries on the availability of the service prior to patient initiation.&nbsp;&nbsp;</i></li><li><i>The services may be billed using CPT codes 99421-99423 and HCPCS codes G2061-G206, as applicable.</i></li><li><i>The Medicare coinsurance and deductible would generally apply to these services.</i></li></ul><p><strong>HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT (HIPAA):</strong>&nbsp; Effective immediately, the HHS Office for Civil Rights (OCR) will exercise enforcement discretion and waive penalties for HIPAA violations against health care providers that serve patients in good faith through everyday communications technologies, such as FaceTime or Skype, during the COVID-19 nationwide public health emergency.&nbsp; For more information: <a href="https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/special-topics/emergency-preparedness/index.html">https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/special-topics/emergency-preparedness/index.html</a></p><p><a href="https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/fact-sheets/medicare-telemedicine-health-care-provider-fact-sheet">Read on cms.gov</a></p>