---
aliases: /events/a-brain-friendly-approach-to-managing-change-and-uncertainty-course
archetype: event
author:
- Daniya Vincent V
basePath: /events/past/
breadcrumbLinks:
- /
- /events
- /events
- '#'
breadcrumbs:
- Home
- Community
- Event
- A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing Change and Uncertainty Course
categories: []
contentCategories: medigy-events-curated-event
date: '2020-05-14T00:00:00.000Z'
description: Mindfulness has been the subject of growing attention and interest in
  recent years, thanks to a rapidly expanding evidence base, relating both to health
  and wellbeing and organisational applications
eventEndDate: 2020-05-14
favIconImage:
  alt: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing Change and Uncertainty Course
  format: ICO
  href: 00aaa17f-aaec-594c-8b84-002f4faddc09-favIconImage.ico
  size:
  - 48
  - 48
  valid: true
  workPackage: 2310
  wpAttachment:
    fileName: Curated_Source_FavIcon.png
    link: /api/v3/attachments/6159/content
featuredImage:
  alt: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing Change and Uncertainty Course
  format: JPEG
  href: 00aaa17f-aaec-594c-8b84-002f4faddc09-featuredImage.jpeg
  size:
  - 1110
  - 400
  valid: true
  workPackage: 2310
  wpAttachment:
    fileName: Curated_Featured_Image.png
    link: /api/v3/attachments/6342/content
htmlMetaData:
- apple-itunes-app: app-id=487922291, affiliate-data=10lptH, app-argument=com-eventbrite-attendee://event/102688877196/?referrer=eiosurlxbanr&aff=ebdssbdestsearch
  apple-mobile-web-app-title: Eventbrite
  application-name: Eventbrite
  description: 'Eventbrite - The Northern Centre for Mindfulness and Compassion  presents
    Online 8-Week Mindfulness: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing Change and Uncertainty
    Course - Thursday, 14 May 2020 - Find event and registration information.'
  keywords: 'Eventbrite, Online 8-Week Mindfulness: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing
    Change and Uncertainty Course, Online 8-Week Mindfulness: A Brain Friendly Approach
    to Managing Change and Uncertainty Course tickets'
  msapplication-TileColor: '#f6682f'
  msapplication-TileImage: https://cdn.evbstatic.com/s3-build/perm_001/8ad267/django/images/favicons/mstile-144x144.png
  msvalidate.01: A9AB07B7E430E4608E0BC57AFA5004AA
  robots: 'index, follow, '
  theme-color: '#f6682f'
  viewport: width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1, user-scalable=no
  y_key: d92e23811007b438
id: 2310
identifier: Events
link:
  brand: eventbrite.co.uk
  href: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/online-8-week-mindfulness-a-brain-friendly-approach-to-managing-change-and-uncertainty-course-registration-102688877196?aff=ebdssbdestsearch
  original: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/online-8-week-mindfulness-a-brain-friendly-approach-to-managing-change-and-uncertainty-course-registration-102688877196?aff=ebdssbdestsearch
mastHead: Events
mdName: 00aaa17f-aaec-594c-8b84-002f4faddc09
openGraphMetaData:
- ogdescription: "Taster Session | Introductory Workshop | Course | Nurturing Continued
    Practice \n  \nPlease be aware that all our events have moved online during the
    Coronavirus Pandemic. \n  \nPlease see ‘Who is this workshop for?’ and ‘Practising
    Presence’ below before booking. \n  \n  \n  \nMindfulness: A Brain Friendly Approach
    to Managing Change and Uncertainty \n  \nMindfulness has been the subject of growing
    attention and interest in recent years, thanks to a rapidly expanding evidence
    base, relating both to health and wellbeing and organisational applications of
    mindfulness, including the management of change. \n  \nCovid-19 has brought with
    it an unprecedented amount of uncertainty and change. Change also plays an unavoidable
    role in our day to day personal and professional lives. But how change-wise are
    we as individuals? And how brain friendly are we when it comes to managing change?
    \n  \nMindfulness: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing Change and Uncertainty
    is an 8-week group course (maximum 12 participants) designed to cultivate inner
    resources to support us through times of change. It is offered in recognition
    of the difficulties inherent in managing times of change and uncertainty and provides
    an opportunity to translate the understandings gained in the Mindfulness for Uncertainty
    and Change Introductory Workshop into new behaviours. \n  \n  \nThrough an understanding
    of neuroscience alongside your own cultivation of a meditation practice, group
    discussion and self-reflection participants will have the opportunity to  \n\n\ndevelop
    a deeper, experiential understanding of the nature of change and uncertainty  \n\n\nnurture
    self-care strategies supportive of physical, mental and emotional health  \n\n\nimprove
    focus and concentration  \n\n\nincrease self-awareness and emotional agility  \n\n\ndevelop
    listening and communication skills  \n\n\ncultivate skills and inner resources
    to manage difficulty and complexity more effectively  \n\n\nnurture insight and
    problem solving.  \n\n\n  \nWho is this course for? \n  \nThis course is open
    to all (please see commitment required below prior to booking) and is suitable
    for beginners as well as those wishing to refresh or deepen their mindfulness
    practice. \n  \nIt is ideal for anyone experiencing personal, professional, organisational
    or societal change who wishes to better understand and manage uncertainty and
    change. It may also be of interest to those with responsibility for managing others
    through periods of change and uncertainty. \n  \nTaught in a secular format it
    is suitable for people of all faiths and people who do not identify with a particular
    religious or spiritual tradition. \n  \nParticipants may join for a variety of
    reasons, including concerns about the general pace of change, a desire to 'hold
    your ground' amidst changing circumstances and/or a wish to explore the possibility
    of living and working differently. \n  \n  \nPractising Presence \n  \nMindfulness
    is the cultivation of present moment awareness. To cultivate increased awareness
    in this way we first need to develop a stability of attention. \n  \nSo as to
    ensure the best learning environment for yourselves and others we ask that you
    \n\n\ntreat this session as you would a face to face event, being there in person
    (recordings will not be made/offered) wherever possible with your camera function
    enabled.  \n\n\nlimit distractions as best you can, ensuring that \n\n\nmobiles
    are both on airplane mode and out of sight  \n\n\nother applications are closed
    so that you will not be interrupted by emails etc.  \n\n\ncolleagues and/or family
    are aware that you are in a live training session, maybe putting a note on the
    door to remind people if need be.  \n\n\n\n\nmake yourselves comfortable with
    a glass of water or cup of tea/coffee.  \n\n\n  \n  \nFormat of the sessions \n 
    \nThis course will be offered through zoom, upon booking you will be sent a link
    to access the online training room. \n  \nIf required please use the link below
    to access a 1 minute guidance video ‘Join a Meeting’ on how to use zoom https://zoom.us/resources
    \n  \nWe’ve been surprised by how easily both we and others have adapted to zoom
    over recent weeks, if you do experience any technical difficulties though, zoom
    also offer a troubleshooting page. https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/sections/200305593-Troubleshooting
    \n  \nWe recommend arriving 10-15 minutes early so that we can try to resolve
    any technical issues prior to the start time. \n  \n  \nIs it the right time for
    me to practice mindfulness? \n  \nIt is not unusual for people to turn to mindfulness
    during periods of change and/or difficulty with many often finding mindfulness
    courses both more challenging and more rewarding than they expected. \n  \nThere
    are however times when attending a group mindfulness course might not be beneficial.
    UMASS (the university from which Mindfulness-Based Interventions originate) list
    the following as areas requiring particular care 'addiction, early recovery, untreated
    psychosis, acute depression, suicidality, PTSD, social anxiety, recent loss'.
    \n  \nThese circumstances or conditions do not necessarily rule out the possibility
    of attending a class as suitability is very much influenced by; \n\n\nYour current
    psychological health  \n\n\nThe extent to which you have previously explored areas
    of particular difficulty and  \n\n\nThe support networks that you have around
    you, such as friends, family and mental health professionals  \n\n\nWe would ask
    that if any of these apply that they are clearly stated on your booking form alongside
    details of the points above. The booking form is also an opportunity to make us
    aware of any other additional needs you may have. If you are currently receiving
    treatment for an ongoing mental health problem we strongly advise that you discuss
    your course attendance with your mental health professional before booking. \n 
    \nFor those attending courses we would also strongly recommend not making any
    changes to any medication during or immediately after a course - however well
    you may be feeling at that time. Instead giving yourself time to fully establish
    your mindfulness practice and any new routines associated with it before considering
    subsequent changes with a trained healthcare professional. \n  \nPlease contact
    us to discuss any questions or concerns you may have regarding workshop and/or
    course suitability. We are happy to discuss your particular circumstances and
    how you may best be supported. If a course is not felt to be suitable at this
    time alternatives will be offered including, for example, suggesting healthcare
    professionals who integrate mindfulness into their work. \n  \n  \nCommitment
    Required \n  \nEight week mindfulness courses are not designed to be a \"quick
    fix\", relaxation classes or group therapy sessions. Nor are they simply a meditation
    class. Offering instead the opportunity to learn (or deepen) a valuable life skill.
    Like any new skill, mindfulness requires a significant personal commitment both
    to attending all eight classes and developing a regular meditation practice at
    home. This includes a commitment to 30 minutes meditation daily for the duration
    of the course alongside a willingness to explore mindfulness within your day to
    day live. \n  \nAs each class builds on the preceding week, we would recommend
    that anyone who misses a class attends a \"catch up session\". We are happy to
    accommodate this in the case of illness etc., but regret that if more than two
    classes are missed, or two classes in a row, you may not be able to finish the
    course. Catch ups are usually provided on a one-to-one/small group basis, either
    prior to or following the following week’s class and take 30 minutes to complete.
    There is a nominal charge of £15 for this service. \n  \nWe would also strongly
    advise not missing weeks 5 and 6. We therefore recommend carefully checking the
    course schedule before reserving a place. \n  \nCovid-19: We would encourage those
    suffering from Covid-19 to rest as much as possible. Please let us know if you
    are unwell so that we can agree how best to proceed, be that catch up sessions
    so that you may continue with the current course or the possibility of deferring
    onto a subsequent course/refund if you prefer. Whilst we normally charge £15 for
    catch up sessions we appreciate these are difficult times for many hence will
    offer these sessions on a donation basis. Also, catch up sessions may include
    delegates from different groups so as to make best use of our time. \n  \n  \nCourse
    Schedule \n  \nThis course will be taught over eight classes from 14th May – 9th
    July 2020 (excluding 28th May half term). Each class will be 2 hours long and
    will take place on Thursday afternoons from 2 – 4pm. \n  \n  \nThe Facilitator
    \n  \nThe facilitator for this workshop is Sally Roberts. A former sceptic it
    took chronic illness in 2008 before Sally would consider something as ‘alternative’
    as mindfulness! \n  \nSince training to teach mindfulness in 2012 Sally has had
    the privilege of sharing many journeys into mindfulness whilst teaching both public
    and workplace courses and continues to be inspired by the transformational impact
    these can have at both a personal and professional level. As a former HR manager
    (MCIPD) Sally has developed a particular interest in the role of mindfulness in
    managing change and cultivating more ‘brain friendly’ workplaces.  \n  \n  \nFrequently
    Asked Questions... \n  \nWhat if I miss a class? \nWe are happy to provide ‘catch
    up’ sessions for those who miss a class due to illness or emergency - please see
    above ‘commitment required’ for further details. \n  \nIs there disabled access
    to the venue? \nn/a – online. \n  \nWhat further information will I receive? \nAll
    our delegates receive \"Joining Advice\" one week before their course commences.
    This email will include information on the class schedule, and a link to our \"pre-course
    questionnaire\" which we would be grateful if you could complete before the course
    commences. \n  \nWhat is your cancellation policy? \nIf you decide to cancel your
    place on this course, we will refund your full course fee, minus a £20 administration
    charge, if we receive notice from you at least 14 days before the 1st class, or
    thereafter: \n75% of your course fee if notice is given before the 2nd class \n50%
    of your course fee if notice is given before the 3rd class \nNo refunds will be
    issued after the 3rd class \nIn the case that the course is cancelled by The Northern
    Centre for Mindfulness and Compassion, all course fees will be refunded in full.
    \n  \nCovid-19: Please be aware that we will be applying our cancellation policy
    reasonably and flexibly during the Coronavirus Pandemic. Please let us know if
    you are unwell so that we can agree how best to proceed; be that a refund in line
    with our policy above, catch up sessions so that you may continue with the current
    course or the possibility of deferring onto a subsequent course if you prefer.
    If we as instructors become unwell, we will either arrange cover or for sessions
    to be rearranged. If this not possible we will offer the possibility of either
    deferring to a later course or receiving a refund. \n  \nHow do I know if someone
    teaching a mindfulness course is appropriately trained? \nThere are no formal
    regulations stipulating who can teach mindfulness, however, we follow the UK Good
    Practice Guidance developed by leading teacher training organisations in the UK
    for Mindfulness-Based Teachers: https://bamba.org.uk/teacher-search/ (formally
    the UK Network). \n  \nI am considering training to teach mindfulness, will this
    course enable me to do this? \nFor those looking to teach mindfulness we would
    recommend having a look at the British Association for Mindfulness-Based Approaches
    which gives guidance on good practice and teacher training organisations within
    the UK. An 8-week MBSR, MBCT or 10-week MBLC course is generally considered a
    good starting point (including attendance on a day retreat) and often a pre-requisite
    to attending teaching training. Given several of our courses are adaptations of
    the traditional 8 week format, if you are looking to follow a particular training
    route it is worth checking any stipulated pre-requisites with your training provider.
    \n  \nMy organisation are interested in/supportive of mindfulness – do you offer
    in-house training? \nYes we offer a full range of in-house mindfulness training,
    including stress reduction, resilience, change management, compassionate care,
    creativity and leadership development. Introductory workshops are an important
    first step for those wishing to offer mindfulness training. Please see our workplace
    webpage or get in touch for further information. We have also agreed employee
    discounts with a number of local organisations. If you are unsure as to whether
    or not your organisation has this offer in place please check with your HR/Staff
    Benefits/Management team. \n  \nWhat is your privacy policy? \nWe recognize the
    importance of protecting your personal information and are committed to processing
    it responsibly and in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulations
    (GDPR). Please click on the link below to see our Privacy Statement which describes
    what happens to any personal data that you give to us, or any that we may collect
    from or about you. It applies to all courses and services, and instances where
    we collect your personal data: https://yorkmbsr.co.uk/privacy-policy \n  \nIf
    you have a question which has not been answered, \nfurther FAQs are available
    on our website or you can contact us directly at relax@yorkmbsr.co.uk."
  ogdeterminer: an
  ogimage: https://img.evbuc.com/https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.evbuc.com%2Fimages%2F98667214%2F38425297330%2F1%2Foriginal.20200414-145103?w=1000&auto=format%2Ccompress&q=75&sharp=10&rect=0%2C41%2C500%2C250&s=1f9b65ba097b9e6134068194f11de037
  oglocale: en_GB
  ogsite_name: Eventbrite
  ogtitle: 'Online 8-Week Mindfulness: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing Change
    and Uncertainty Course'
  ogttl: '777600'
  ogtype: events.event
  ogurl: http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/102688877196?aff=efbneb
openProjectCustomFields:
  cleanUrl: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/online-8-week-mindfulness-a-brain-friendly-approach-to-managing-change-and-uncertainty-course-registration-102688877196?aff=ebdssbdestsearch
  eventCancelled: null
  location: Online
  onlineEvent: t
  shortUrl: null
  sourceUrl: https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/online-8-week-mindfulness-a-brain-friendly-approach-to-managing-change-and-uncertainty-course-registration-102688877196?aff=ebdssbdestsearch
  videoRecordingUrl: null
openProjectWorkPackageType: Curated Event
publishDate: 2020-05-20 09:12:00.293806
searchCategory: Events
slug: eventbrite-a-brain-friendly-approach-to-managing-change-and-uncertainty-course
source: open-project-curations
status: past
sub: events
tags:
- events
title: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing Change and Uncertainty Course
twitterMetaData:
- twitterappidgoogleplay: com.eventbrite.attendee
  twitterappidiphone: '487922291'
  twitterappnamegoogleplay: Eventbrite
  twitterappnameiphone: Eventbrite
  twitterappurlgoogleplay: com-eventbrite-attendee://event/102688877196/?referrer=eandurlxtcar&aff=ebdssbdestsearch
  twitterappurliphone: com-eventbrite-attendee://event/102688877196/?referrer=eiosurlxtcar&aff=ebdssbdestsearch
  twittercard: summary
  twitterdata2: ''
  twitterdescription: "Taster Session | Introductory Workshop | Course | Nurturing
    Continued Practice \n  \nPlease be aware that all our events have moved online
    during the Coronavirus Pandemic. \n  \nPlease see ‘Who is this workshop for?’
    and ‘Practising Presence’ below before booking. \n  \n  \n  \nMindfulness: A Brain
    Friendly Approach to Managing Change and Uncertainty \n  \nMindfulness has been
    the subject of growing attention and interest in recent years, thanks to a rapidly
    expanding evidence base, relating both to health and wellbeing and organisational
    applications of mindfulness, including the management of change. \n  \nCovid-19
    has brought with it an unprecedented amount of uncertainty and change. Change
    also plays an unavoidable role in our day to day personal and professional lives.
    But how change-wise are we as individuals? And how brain friendly are we when
    it comes to managing change? \n  \nMindfulness: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing
    Change and Uncertainty is an 8-week group course (maximum 12 participants) designed
    to cultivate inner resources to support us through times of change. It is offered
    in recognition of the difficulties inherent in managing times of change and uncertainty
    and provides an opportunity to translate the understandings gained in the Mindfulness
    for Uncertainty and Change Introductory Workshop into new behaviours. \n  \n 
    \nThrough an understanding of neuroscience alongside your own cultivation of a
    meditation practice, group discussion and self-reflection participants will have
    the opportunity to  \n\n\ndevelop a deeper, experiential understanding of the
    nature of change and uncertainty  \n\n\nnurture self-care strategies supportive
    of physical, mental and emotional health  \n\n\nimprove focus and concentration
    \ \n\n\nincrease self-awareness and emotional agility  \n\n\ndevelop listening
    and communication skills  \n\n\ncultivate skills and inner resources to manage
    difficulty and complexity more effectively  \n\n\nnurture insight and problem
    solving.  \n\n\n  \nWho is this course for? \n  \nThis course is open to all (please
    see commitment required below prior to booking) and is suitable for beginners
    as well as those wishing to refresh or deepen their mindfulness practice. \n 
    \nIt is ideal for anyone experiencing personal, professional, organisational or
    societal change who wishes to better understand and manage uncertainty and change.
    It may also be of interest to those with responsibility for managing others through
    periods of change and uncertainty. \n  \nTaught in a secular format it is suitable
    for people of all faiths and people who do not identify with a particular religious
    or spiritual tradition. \n  \nParticipants may join for a variety of reasons,
    including concerns about the general pace of change, a desire to 'hold your ground'
    amidst changing circumstances and/or a wish to explore the possibility of living
    and working differently. \n  \n  \nPractising Presence \n  \nMindfulness is the
    cultivation of present moment awareness. To cultivate increased awareness in this
    way we first need to develop a stability of attention. \n  \nSo as to ensure the
    best learning environment for yourselves and others we ask that you \n\n\ntreat
    this session as you would a face to face event, being there in person (recordings
    will not be made/offered) wherever possible with your camera function enabled.
    \ \n\n\nlimit distractions as best you can, ensuring that \n\n\nmobiles are both
    on airplane mode and out of sight  \n\n\nother applications are closed so that
    you will not be interrupted by emails etc.  \n\n\ncolleagues and/or family are
    aware that you are in a live training session, maybe putting a note on the door
    to remind people if need be.  \n\n\n\n\nmake yourselves comfortable with a glass
    of water or cup of tea/coffee.  \n\n\n  \n  \nFormat of the sessions \n  \nThis
    course will be offered through zoom, upon booking you will be sent a link to access
    the online training room. \n  \nIf required please use the link below to access
    a 1 minute guidance video ‘Join a Meeting’ on how to use zoom https://zoom.us/resources
    \n  \nWe’ve been surprised by how easily both we and others have adapted to zoom
    over recent weeks, if you do experience any technical difficulties though, zoom
    also offer a troubleshooting page. https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/sections/200305593-Troubleshooting
    \n  \nWe recommend arriving 10-15 minutes early so that we can try to resolve
    any technical issues prior to the start time. \n  \n  \nIs it the right time for
    me to practice mindfulness? \n  \nIt is not unusual for people to turn to mindfulness
    during periods of change and/or difficulty with many often finding mindfulness
    courses both more challenging and more rewarding than they expected. \n  \nThere
    are however times when attending a group mindfulness course might not be beneficial.
    UMASS (the university from which Mindfulness-Based Interventions originate) list
    the following as areas requiring particular care 'addiction, early recovery, untreated
    psychosis, acute depression, suicidality, PTSD, social anxiety, recent loss'.
    \n  \nThese circumstances or conditions do not necessarily rule out the possibility
    of attending a class as suitability is very much influenced by; \n\n\nYour current
    psychological health  \n\n\nThe extent to which you have previously explored areas
    of particular difficulty and  \n\n\nThe support networks that you have around
    you, such as friends, family and mental health professionals  \n\n\nWe would ask
    that if any of these apply that they are clearly stated on your booking form alongside
    details of the points above. The booking form is also an opportunity to make us
    aware of any other additional needs you may have. If you are currently receiving
    treatment for an ongoing mental health problem we strongly advise that you discuss
    your course attendance with your mental health professional before booking. \n 
    \nFor those attending courses we would also strongly recommend not making any
    changes to any medication during or immediately after a course - however well
    you may be feeling at that time. Instead giving yourself time to fully establish
    your mindfulness practice and any new routines associated with it before considering
    subsequent changes with a trained healthcare professional. \n  \nPlease contact
    us to discuss any questions or concerns you may have regarding workshop and/or
    course suitability. We are happy to discuss your particular circumstances and
    how you may best be supported. If a course is not felt to be suitable at this
    time alternatives will be offered including, for example, suggesting healthcare
    professionals who integrate mindfulness into their work. \n  \n  \nCommitment
    Required \n  \nEight week mindfulness courses are not designed to be a \"quick
    fix\", relaxation classes or group therapy sessions. Nor are they simply a meditation
    class. Offering instead the opportunity to learn (or deepen) a valuable life skill.
    Like any new skill, mindfulness requires a significant personal commitment both
    to attending all eight classes and developing a regular meditation practice at
    home. This includes a commitment to 30 minutes meditation daily for the duration
    of the course alongside a willingness to explore mindfulness within your day to
    day live. \n  \nAs each class builds on the preceding week, we would recommend
    that anyone who misses a class attends a \"catch up session\". We are happy to
    accommodate this in the case of illness etc., but regret that if more than two
    classes are missed, or two classes in a row, you may not be able to finish the
    course. Catch ups are usually provided on a one-to-one/small group basis, either
    prior to or following the following week’s class and take 30 minutes to complete.
    There is a nominal charge of £15 for this service. \n  \nWe would also strongly
    advise not missing weeks 5 and 6. We therefore recommend carefully checking the
    course schedule before reserving a place. \n  \nCovid-19: We would encourage those
    suffering from Covid-19 to rest as much as possible. Please let us know if you
    are unwell so that we can agree how best to proceed, be that catch up sessions
    so that you may continue with the current course or the possibility of deferring
    onto a subsequent course/refund if you prefer. Whilst we normally charge £15 for
    catch up sessions we appreciate these are difficult times for many hence will
    offer these sessions on a donation basis. Also, catch up sessions may include
    delegates from different groups so as to make best use of our time. \n  \n  \nCourse
    Schedule \n  \nThis course will be taught over eight classes from 14th May – 9th
    July 2020 (excluding 28th May half term). Each class will be 2 hours long and
    will take place on Thursday afternoons from 2 – 4pm. \n  \n  \nThe Facilitator
    \n  \nThe facilitator for this workshop is Sally Roberts. A former sceptic it
    took chronic illness in 2008 before Sally would consider something as ‘alternative’
    as mindfulness! \n  \nSince training to teach mindfulness in 2012 Sally has had
    the privilege of sharing many journeys into mindfulness whilst teaching both public
    and workplace courses and continues to be inspired by the transformational impact
    these can have at both a personal and professional level. As a former HR manager
    (MCIPD) Sally has developed a particular interest in the role of mindfulness in
    managing change and cultivating more ‘brain friendly’ workplaces.  \n  \n  \nFrequently
    Asked Questions... \n  \nWhat if I miss a class? \nWe are happy to provide ‘catch
    up’ sessions for those who miss a class due to illness or emergency - please see
    above ‘commitment required’ for further details. \n  \nIs there disabled access
    to the venue? \nn/a – online. \n  \nWhat further information will I receive? \nAll
    our delegates receive \"Joining Advice\" one week before their course commences.
    This email will include information on the class schedule, and a link to our \"pre-course
    questionnaire\" which we would be grateful if you could complete before the course
    commences. \n  \nWhat is your cancellation policy? \nIf you decide to cancel your
    place on this course, we will refund your full course fee, minus a £20 administration
    charge, if we receive notice from you at least 14 days before the 1st class, or
    thereafter: \n75% of your course fee if notice is given before the 2nd class \n50%
    of your course fee if notice is given before the 3rd class \nNo refunds will be
    issued after the 3rd class \nIn the case that the course is cancelled by The Northern
    Centre for Mindfulness and Compassion, all course fees will be refunded in full.
    \n  \nCovid-19: Please be aware that we will be applying our cancellation policy
    reasonably and flexibly during the Coronavirus Pandemic. Please let us know if
    you are unwell so that we can agree how best to proceed; be that a refund in line
    with our policy above, catch up sessions so that you may continue with the current
    course or the possibility of deferring onto a subsequent course if you prefer.
    If we as instructors become unwell, we will either arrange cover or for sessions
    to be rearranged. If this not possible we will offer the possibility of either
    deferring to a later course or receiving a refund. \n  \nHow do I know if someone
    teaching a mindfulness course is appropriately trained? \nThere are no formal
    regulations stipulating who can teach mindfulness, however, we follow the UK Good
    Practice Guidance developed by leading teacher training organisations in the UK
    for Mindfulness-Based Teachers: https://bamba.org.uk/teacher-search/ (formally
    the UK Network). \n  \nI am considering training to teach mindfulness, will this
    course enable me to do this? \nFor those looking to teach mindfulness we would
    recommend having a look at the British Association for Mindfulness-Based Approaches
    which gives guidance on good practice and teacher training organisations within
    the UK. An 8-week MBSR, MBCT or 10-week MBLC course is generally considered a
    good starting point (including attendance on a day retreat) and often a pre-requisite
    to attending teaching training. Given several of our courses are adaptations of
    the traditional 8 week format, if you are looking to follow a particular training
    route it is worth checking any stipulated pre-requisites with your training provider.
    \n  \nMy organisation are interested in/supportive of mindfulness – do you offer
    in-house training? \nYes we offer a full range of in-house mindfulness training,
    including stress reduction, resilience, change management, compassionate care,
    creativity and leadership development. Introductory workshops are an important
    first step for those wishing to offer mindfulness training. Please see our workplace
    webpage or get in touch for further information. We have also agreed employee
    discounts with a number of local organisations. If you are unsure as to whether
    or not your organisation has this offer in place please check with your HR/Staff
    Benefits/Management team. \n  \nWhat is your privacy policy? \nWe recognize the
    importance of protecting your personal information and are committed to processing
    it responsibly and in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulations
    (GDPR). Please click on the link below to see our Privacy Statement which describes
    what happens to any personal data that you give to us, or any that we may collect
    from or about you. It applies to all courses and services, and instances where
    we collect your personal data: https://yorkmbsr.co.uk/privacy-policy \n  \nIf
    you have a question which has not been answered, \nfurther FAQs are available
    on our website or you can contact us directly at relax@yorkmbsr.co.uk."
  twitterimage: https://img.evbuc.com/https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.evbuc.com%2Fimages%2F98667214%2F38425297330%2F1%2Foriginal.20200414-145103?w=1000&auto=format%2Ccompress&q=75&sharp=10&rect=0%2C41%2C500%2C250&s=1f9b65ba097b9e6134068194f11de037
  twitterlabel2: ''
  twittersite: '@eventbrite'
  twittertitle: 'Online 8-Week Mindfulness: A Brain Friendly Approach to Managing
    Change and Uncertainty Course'
---

Mindfulness has been the subject of growing attention and interest in recent years, thanks to a rapidly expanding evidence base, relating both to health and wellbeing and organisational applications of mindfulness, including the management of change.<br><br><a target="_blank" href=https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/online-8-week-mindfulness-a-brain-friendly-approach-to-managing-change-and-uncertainty-course-registration-102688877196?aff=ebdssbdestsearch>Read on eventbrite.co.uk</a>